"Eurasian Economic Union is wake-up call for US

The Eurasian Economic Union is a historic deal and represents a pivot to the East, global financial markets expert Patrick Young told RT. The new union will force the EU to be more competitive and will be a wake-up call for US.


  On Thursday, Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan signed the Eurasian
  Economic Union which will come into effect in January 2015. The
  new bloc will cut down trade barriers and comprises of over 170
  million people, making it the largest common market in the former
  Soviet space.


RT:Just how big a deal is this?

Patrick Young: This is a very interesting deal.
  It is one huge step, part of the pivot to the East that Russia
  has been behind, and of course we have seen in recent weeks
  really come together. Think about it this way — amongst these
  three countries alone in the customs union they’ve had over the
  last few years they’ve increased their trade between themselves
  by the equivalent of the entirety of Russia’s trade with the US.
  It has multiple possible impacts - some possibilities for every
  business, small and large, whether you are sitting in Minsk or
  Almaty, or wherever you are in Russia to profit from the
  opportunity. Eurasian economic union is a new power-trading bloc.
  It has many resources, a huge number of people. We are talking
  about 170 million people - 1.5 percent of the world’s population.
  They are covering thought 15 percent of the world’s land, 20
  percent of the world’s gas resources, 15 percent of the world’s
  oil resources and a great deal of industry and also agriculture.


RT:Europe is Russia’s biggest trading
  partner at the moment, should it be worried?

PY: Europe has to start looking at things from
  the competitive sensible perspective. Europe was not going to be
  the only union in the world, just as the same as NAFTA in America
  was never going to be the only trade agreement there. Europe
  needs to understand the idea that just because you happen to be
  on the eastern fringes of the European Union, it doesn’t
  automatically mean that you are going to try to fight your way
  into the EU as it currently is. Why not go with something like
  this Eurasian union, where you’ve got effectively all the
  benefits of the first stage of the European economic community,
  i.e. free trade, but you don't have to worry about the silly
  regulation, plutocratic red tape, which plunged the EU community
  into crisis.


RT:What impact will this have on US
  economy?

PY: This is a high wake-up call. This is part
  two or part three for the US over the course of the last few
  weeks. Obviously the gas pipeline deal – that was the whole pride
  of Siberia project – was absolutely fascinating. The point about
  whether America needs to get worried is:



  a) America needs to realize that just because it is the world’s
  largest economic power; it is no longer the uni-power in the
  world in terms of economics. Russia and the rest of the world
  have alternatives in how they trade.
  
  b) And the most significant thing - and this is a very long-term
  trend for the US - is that none of it will be conducted in US
  dollars. People will find another way to trade. That is a big
  impact because the US dollar reserve currency status is the thing
  whereby it is the most dominant money on Earth ultimately is
  under threat. As soon as US dollars are under threat, the
  hegemony of the US project is going to find itself in problems.
  This is a big pivot and the US ignores it at its peril long term."
