"Sanctions: The sanctimonious solution

As Moscow withdrew its troops from the border with Ukraine, President Obama announced further sanctions against Russian politicians and businessmen to a chorus of economists gleefully predicting the havoc to be wrought on the Russian economy.


  Of course, there’s not much evidence that sanctions have every
  actually achieved anything beyond making life difficult for
  lesser or greater numbers of people. Furthermore, the entire idea
  runs counter to the creed of global market liberalization so
  openly embraced by the very people who support slapping sanctions
  on anyone who indicates that they may not be in complete accord
  with them on each and every topic under the sun.



  The World Trade Organization (WTO), for example, was supposed to
  prevent nations from using their economies as a tool in the
  service of their own political interests. This has long served as
  the rationale for the WTO’s limited consideration of social
  rights or the environment when rendering its decisions.



  In the world of international law, sanctions are therefore a bit
  pass?, really. They may have sounded like a good idea 20 years
  ago, but we’ve all moved on since then.



  Thus, the idea that the USA and Europe are somehow going to
  bludgeon Russia into submission using a tool that
  much-more-vulnerable Cuba has blithely held out against for over
  half a century, is at first glance, worth a laugh. After all,
  it’s an open secret that the only country the US has managed to
  isolate with its sanctions has long been itself. In fact, before
  Gaddafi was ousted in 2011, the United States was – thanks to the
  long-standing Pan-Am controversy – virtually the only country
  that wasn’t getting oil concessions out of Libya.



  Much has been said about the overweening arrogance sanctioning
  Russia displays Max Keiser’s article earlier this week was particularly
  interesting, especially since it hasn’t been possible to portray
  these sanctions as the usual punishment for not having a
  ‘democratic’ government. Are Western leaders really so
  out of touch that they think Russia will give in because it is
  being sanctioned by the US and Europe?



  I doubt it.



  There’s a deeper game here and it is as follows: 1) sanctioning
  Russia makes it look like Western leaders are actually doing
  something (thereby satisfying public opinion at home); 2) if I
  were a betting woman, I would put money on it coming out someday
  that these sanctions were laid down in a manner curiously
  advantageous to certain Western businesses; 3) as far as Western
  leaders are concerned it isn’t Russia that is the problem, it’s
  Putin. I think they’ve gotten the message that Putin is not the
  ‘caving in’ type. So rather than get him to back down,
  they’d probably rather just get rid of him. Hence the litany of
  complaints personally directed against Putin over the past
  several months.



  It might surprise many Russians to learn that a large segment of
  the North American population believes that Vladimir Putin is an
  unelected dictator and that they are paranoid of being put under
  surveillance by him. I understand that you may need to read that
  twice to take it all in. Most people react to my telling them
  that I write for RT as if I have just announced that I have a
  license to kill.



  But difficult as it is, try to see things from the point of view
  of your average Western power-broker. They can remember the good
  old times, when Yeltsin was in charge (using that term loosely)
  and Russia was an investment bonanza, a real “free
  market”, plentiful in crony capitalism with minimal social
  security and all the natural resources you can take.



  They would like that back.



  And after that, they would like a similar arrangement in China,
  please.



  Once that is accomplished everyone will finally be on the same
  wavelength and the world will be remarkably conflict-free. It
  wouldn’t matter so much where Ukraine chose to make its political
  and economic alliances, because under this scenario the money
  would all be flowing into the same pockets, anyway and at a rate
  rapid enough to keep everyone satisfied.



  And Western leaders think that they have a certain chance of
  getting Part 1 of their policy taken care of, because they are
  hoping that if they can cause the Russian economy to tank, it
  will eventually, when the dust has settled, hit Putin’s
  popularity so hard as to hurt his chances of re-election. This is
  a basic tactic that is used a lot in international negotiations.
  It’s played by getting anyone you think is a tough negotiator
  removed from their job by spreading misinformation about them
  back to their home government or simply outright demanding that
  the home government sack them in order for negotiations to
  proceed at all.



  You can see both of these tactics at play in regards to Putin at
  the moment. I’m all for a healthy dose of criticism in domestic
  politics, but Russia as spy state using covert operations to
  topple governments while simultaneously placing us all under
  surveillance sounds a lot like Western leaders just cobbled
  together everyone’s complaints about them and hurled them at the
  new/old arch-enemy. Classic misinformation.



  Sanctions are an example of tactic two: I don’t like you so I’m
  not going to deal with you. If your country wants to talk to me
  they have to send someone with a better attitude, which means
  someone who thinks that the word ‘negotiation’ means that we do
  whatever I want. People sometimes wonder at the high proportion
  of idiots given government posts. Now you know. If you have a
  backbone, your survival chances decrease dramatically, because
  you get hit-listed.



  Consider further that this kind of aggressive action is necessary
  for Western leaders, because their backs are already against the
  wall. Their own constituents are fed-up to levels that haven’t
  been seen since the 1960s, with inequality growing daily. The
  largest political parties have already decided that they are in
  the game for themselves, with few differences to speak of between
  their policies. Thus, they only have two choices – continue going
  with whatever policies suit their wealthy campaign backers or do
  an about-face and start compromising with ‘the people’.



  Needless to say, that would burn the bridge with campaign
  financiers, and since that relationship has been ongoing for a
  very long time, taking the plunge to change things around seems
  like a pretty big risk. So no one does it, and they just continue
  doing what they’ve done for the last 20 years, which is to try to
  steamroll everything in their path.



  This is the real logic behind sanctions: an attempt to make the
  Russian leadership unpopular with its own businesses and citizens
  to the point that a more conciliatory party and leader are
  elected. No easy task, clearly, since imposing sanctions which
  exclusively hit Russia involves a fair bit of cherry-picking.



  Western politicians seem determined to follow this course to the
  bitter end rather than acknowledge that their own political
  interests may not be the only ones on Earth or that we might be
  under some sort of obligation to negotiate with the elected
  leaders of other nations.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
