"Russia’s third largest bank moves money from Europe to Moscow for safe keeping

Gazprombank transferred client funds from Belgium and Luxembourg back to home turf, to protect against any future sanctions.


  The securities were moved from Euroclear Bank (Brussels) and
  Clearstream Banking (Luxembourg) to the Russian Central
  Depository at the end of April.



  The move is intended to protect customers from any forthcoming
  sanctions and prevent a situation where clients’ funds are
  frozen, the statement on the website said.


“The transfer was done to prevent possible restrictions on
  transactions of customers’ assets that are kept in international
  deposits and settlement systems,” it stated. In preparation
  for sanctions, in March, the bank moved nearly $7 billion to
  Russia’s Central Bank for safe keeping.



  Russia’s Central Bank held $486 billion in international reserves
  as of April 1 this year, $40 billion less than one year earlier,
  when holdings stood at about $528 billion.



  The last round of US sanctions included 17 companies, but didn’t
  target Gazprombank or Vnesheconombank (VEB), both state-owned
  lending institutions. In March, the US imposed sanctions on Bank
  Rossiya and its owner, Yury Kovalchuk - both have stakes in
  Gazprom subsidiaries.



  The bank’s total assets are $110.5 billion (3.9 trillion rubles)
  according to RIA bank ratings. The bank is 49.6 percent owned by
  a Gazprom-affiliated pension fund, Gazfond, 35.5 percent owned by
  Gazprom OAO, and 10.2 percent owned by VEB, Russia’s state
  development bank.



  Bank customers will still be able to make transactions with other
  securities that were previously stored in the European banks.



  Gazprombank is chaired by Aleksey Miller, the CEO of Gazprom.
  Igor Sechin, the head of Rosneft, Russia’s other major
  state-owned oil company, was included on the previous sanctions
  list. Miller was not.



  Many US politicians have advocated placing both Gazprom and
  Rosneft under sanctions, in order to strike at the heart of the
  Russian economy – its energy."
