"?‘US not in a hurry to protect journalists not echoing party line’

Washington's stance on Russian journalists detained in Ukraine is a human rights abuse, media analyst Danny Schechter told RT, adding, the US propaganda approach of 'perception management' allows the State Department to spin the facts on the ground.

RT:The US State Department is saying that
  these two detained journalists are terrorists. But why are they
  being so vague when it comes to the evidence they have actually
  got?

Danny Schechter: Because the whole notion of
  'perception management' which is what US officials are trained
  in, the art of 'perception management'. They do not deal with
  facts, they deal with impressions and imperceptions.



  So if someone can be considered a 'terrorist' that immediately
  would discredit anything they've done and their legitimacy as a
  professional covering a war. In every war, the biggest danger,
  truth is the first casualty of every war. All sides have their
  own have their own narratives that they want respected.



  However in this case with Kiev and Washington basically
  purporting to be there as emissaries of freedom somehow, it is
  particularly discouraging that they are not allowing access to
  crews from other countries or journalists whose points of view
  that they don’t like or don’t want to see or get access to the
  facts of what is going on there. That is troubling and that is
  also in my opinion a human rights abuse.


RT:How about if the US finds out that the
  pair are actual journalists - do you think Washington will join
  international efforts to get them released?

DS: I think they might join those efforts, but
  with not all deliberate speed. They are not in a hurry to assure
  the rights of crews and journalists who they don’t believe are
  actually echoing whatever their party line is. Isn’t that funny?
  For years we in America were taught that all the information
  coming from the other side is propaganda. Now what we are seeing
  is that a lot of what is coming from our side is propaganda and
  thinly disguised propaganda. Of course, the minute you say ‘what
  about these journalists and are you looking into what is
  happening to them?’ they’ll start talking about the other set of
  journalists. Change the subject is one of the strategies that is
  widely used to make sure that the media and the audience focuses
  on the issues they want them to focus on.


RT:RT contributor Graham Phillips was
  detained Tuesday morning. How do you think the UK government will
  react now that a British national is being held in a foreign
  country?

DS: Well again the UK government has already
  taken a side in this conflict. They are not neutrals. They are
  anti-Russian, pro-Kiev, whatever they think Kiev is – a center of
  democracy in their view. And this is somebody they are not
  particularly happy with. There have been many instances during
  the Iraq war particularly where journalists and media
  organizations that were critical of the war had a hard time
  getting access, had a hard time getting heard, of getting
  interviews, or getting footage of other material that other
  journalists would get. It is a very politicized process and it is
  also a very propagandistic process. So I would not hold my breath
  in waiting for the British government to speak out for freedom of
  the press.


RT:These arrests have many questioning the
  Kiev government’s commitment to free speech. What do you think
  they'll have to say about these journalist arrests?

DS: We want to know what the facts are. If they
  are carrying weapons or allying with one side, that is one thing.
  It has to be proven not just asserted. Obviously it is highly
  unlikely that journalists for a live TV channel are also secretly
  combatants and carrying weapons with them. I would think that, it
  sounds almost preposterous on its face. But there needs to be
  some sort of analysis into all of this. Press freedom groups
  should get in into the act here and try to verify these
  accusations but also try to exonerate the journalists who have
  been falsely accused in the name of the supposedly freedom of the
  press but really in the name of a political agenda."
