"'Death of money': Author Rickards predicts collapse of global monetary system

The collapse of the monetary system awaits the world in the near future, says financial expert James Rickards. Russia and China's desire to rid the US dollar of its global reserve currency status is an early sign of the “increasingly inevitable” crisis.

“China has three trillion dollars, but they are buying gold
  as fast as they can. China worries that the US is going to
  devalue the dollar through inflation so they want to have a hedge
  if the dollar goes down, so the gold will go up,” Rickards
  told RT.



  As one of the key events in support of his forecast, Rickards
  points to the words uttered by Russian President Vladimir Putin
  at the 18th International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg that
  took place earlier this month.
  “Putin said he envisions a Eurasian economic zone involving
  Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and Russia. The Russian ruble is
  nowhere near ready to be a global reserve currency, but it could
  be a regional reserve currency,” he said, as quoted by ETF
  Daily News.
  
  Rickards’ book about the demise of the dollar was released in
  April under quite an apocalyptic name – 'The Death of Money.'
  However, the author is surprised that the events are unfolding
  much faster than he predicted.
  “If anything, the tempo of events is faster than expected.
  Therefore, some of these catastrophic outcomes may come sooner
  than I wrote about.”
  Last Wednesday, China and Russia signed a historic US$400 billion
  gas deal which will provide the world's fastest growing economy
  with the natural gas it needs to keep pace for the next 30 years.
  Experts say this could be the catalyst that dethrones
  the greenback as the world's reserve currency.



  The best-selling author writes that the “linchpin” of the
  collapse is the approaching failure of the dollar since it is at
  the foundation of the system. Powerful countries such as Russia,
  China, Iran, and India do not rely on the US in their national
  security and would benefit from the US economy being weaker, thus
  desiring to break free from the dollar standard.
  
  He elaborates that the dual collapse “looks increasingly
  inevitable.”“The mistakes have already been made. The instability is
  already in the system. We’re just waiting for that catalyst that
  I call the snowflake that starts the avalanche,” he said, as
  quoted by ETF.
  
  There are three big international factors that are pressuring the
  dollar right now – Russia, China, and Saudi Arabia.
  “Since the 1970s, Saudi Arabia [has been] the leader in
  what’s called the petrodollar. It basically means that Saudi
  Arabia and, by extension, OPEC, price oil in dollars, so the
  world market is in dollars.
  
  “Russia is a major natural resource exporter; they price their
  exports in dollars as well. But Russia now is engaged in a
  financial war with the US around the issues in Crimea and
  Ukraine.”


  The threats to the dollar are “ubiquitous,” the author
  states in his book. The only way the US can pay off its $17
  trillion debt is with inflation, which would drive other
  countries away from the dollar while the accumulation of gold by
  Russia and China presages the shift to a new reserve asset.
  “The next time we will have a liquidity crisis in the world
  it’s going to be bigger than the ability of central banks to deal
  with it. The IMF will basically have to bail out the world by
  printing the SDRs (an international reserve asset created by the
  IMF in 1969 to supplement its member countries' official
  reserves). By that time, you will see the SDR emerge as the new
  global world currency,” Rickards told RT."
