"US economy contracts for the first time since 2011

The US Department of Commerce said Thursday that the economy contracted between January and March of this year at a rate of 1 percent, defying initial estimates from economists who expected to see a slight uptake during the first quarter of 2014.


  Instead, the economy diminished for the first time since that
  same period three years earlier. On the heels of a particularly
  harsh winter, however, economists say the downturn is already in
  the past and that numbers are on the up already.


“The US recovery took a backward step in the first quarter,
  most likely the result of many parts of the country having been
  battered by extreme weather at the start of the year, Chris
  Williamson, a chief economist at financial information firm
  Markit, told the Los Angeles Times. However, current
  indicators suggest this was merely a temporary setback in an
  otherwise ongoing robust recovery, pointing to a strong rebound
  in the second quarter, he said.


  Ryan Sweet, a senior economist for Moody’s Analytics, told
  Bloomberg that the downturn could be
  attributed to “less construction spending and less inventory
  accumulation” — two factors typical of the cold winter
  months. According to the LA Times, private businesses increased
  their inventories during the first quarter of 2014 by $49 billion
  — less than half of the $111.7 billion surge during the previous
  quarter, which includes the holiday shopping season.



  Combined with weather conditions, the post-holiday lull helped
  the nation’s economic output shrink at an annual rate of 1
  percent. Nevertheless, economists say that trend is over and done
  with.


We knew that weather dramatically impacted growth in the
  first quarter, and we fully expect a bounce back in the second
  quarter,” Dan Greenhaus, chief strategist at BTIG, told
  clients in a memo obtained by the Associated Press.



  But while economists had initially predicted better performance
  in the first quarter, the US Fedreal Reserve acknowledge late
  last month that harsh weather during the start of 2014 played a
  huge role in ravaging their expectations.



  According to Bloomberg, some financial insiders say that the
  economy is already on the up.


“Performance has already improved in May, and continued
  improvement in the macroeconomic landscape and the consumer
  sentiment” help give the chain a positive outlook in 2014,
  Robert Niblock, the chief executive officer at home-improvement
  retailer Lowe’s Cos., said on a May 21 earnings call, Bloomberg
  acknowledged.



  Statistics pertaining to the most recent weeks suggest that the
  economy is indeed back on the right track: the four-week average
  for jobless claims is currently at the lowest level since 2007,
  and economists surveyed by Bloomberg say they now expect the
  economy to expand at a rate of 3.5 percent this quarter.


The second estimate of GDP is backward looking, said
  In the fourth quarter, the overall economy had grown at an annual
  rate of 2.6 per cent.



  Jobless claims dropped by 27,000 to 300,000. The four-week
  average decreased to the lowest level since August 2007.



  The economy in the second quarter will expand at a 3.5 percent
  rate, according to the median projection of 72 economists
  surveyed by Bloomberg from May 2 to May 7. For all of 2013, the
  economy expanded 1.9 percent after a 2.8 percent gain in the
  prior year."
