"Kiev military op: Ukrainian army tanks, APCs, troops attack Slavyansk

Five anti-government protesters have reportedly been killed and one injured in the eastern Ukrainian town of Slavyansk after Kiev authorities sent tanks and armored vehicles against the local population.

Follow
  RT’s LIVE UPDATES on military operation in eastern Ukraine

“During the antiterrorist operation, three checkpoints
  erected by illegal military groups have been destroyed in the
  northeastern part of Slavyansk,” the Ukrainian Interior
  Ministry said, adding: At least five terrorists have been
  killed. One policeman was injured.”


  Witnesses report on Twitter Slavyansk self-defense forces are now
  burning tires to hamper the entrance of infantry vehicles from
  Kiev into the city.



    Ukraine army attack have just driven off at high speed pic.twitter.com/pHyPzc4WhQ
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    24, 2014


  According to Rossiya 24 TV channel, self-defense forces have
  repelled the attack of the Kiev gunmen at the key checkpoint 3 km
  north of Slavyansk. At least three infantry vehicles had to
  retreat.



  Police has announced the beginning of the crackdown via
  loudspeakers and a special vehicle is currently patrolling the
  streets warning local people about the crackdown.



  The local citizens in the city are preparing for the Kiev
  crackdown. The majority of shops, kindergartens and schools have
  been closed in the city. Only the shops selling bread and water
  remain open.



    Mass shop closures in #Sloviansk
    and a chilling word from the street here 'the war has started'.
  
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    24, 2014


    Âîåííûå ïûòàþòñÿ âîéòè â ãîðîä 
    #Ñëàâÿíñêpic.twitter.com/VDgUd7kELI
    — Ñìèðíîôô (@smirnof3gs) April
    24, 2014

“Fighting the outskirts of Slavyansk started at about 12pm
  Moscow time (08:00 GMT),” one of the leaders of the
  self-defense forces, Miroslav Rudenko, told Interfax, We are
  checking reports of one dead and one injured. There are shootings
  at a number of checkpoints at some of Slavyansk exit-roads.”


  Rudenko said it was impossible to reach self-defense leaders in
  Slavyansk by phone, suspecting that mobile phone connection could
  have been switched off.



  Rossiya 24 TV channel reported there was a slow offensive by
  Ukrainian troops on Slavyansk.


“Now armored vehicles and special forces are just 10km away
  from the town,” said Rossiya 24 correspondent currently on
  the ground.



  According to locals, at least eight armored infantry vehicles
  passed the village of Hrestische, near Slavyansk, on Thursday
  morning, reports Gazeta.ru.



  At least three snipers from Ukrainian army are now at the
  barricades, the residents also told Gazeta.ru, adding that when
  one of the journalists tried to approach the barricades, the
  snipers opened fire.



  Meanwhile, two columns of armored vehicles are heading towards
  Slavyansk. The first column is now 6km from the city, while the
  second is 3 to 4km, Mayor of Slavyansk Vyacheslav Ponomarev told
  Rossiya 24 TV channel.



  Meanwhile, the armored infantry vehicles are currently heading
  towards the town of Izyum in the Kharkov Region, not far from
  Slavyansk.



  Anti-government protesters are still controlling the checkpoints
  on the outskirts of Slavyansk.



  Ukrainian military Mil Mi-24 and Mi-8 helicopters have been
  detected in the city of Artyomovsk near Slavyansk.



  Kiev must investigate checkpoint fatal shooting – Amnesty



  Ukrainian forces must respect international standards on use of
  force, Amnesty International said on its website responding to
  reports of fatal shootings
  of anti-government activists at several checkpoints in Slavyansk.
  “International standards on the use of force and firearms are
  clear – law enforcement officials should resort to the use of
  firearms only in defence against an imminent threat of death or
  serious injury. They should apply other non-violent means before
  resorting to the use of force, and the use of firearms must
  always be the last resort. When the use of force and firearms is
  unavoidable they must exercise restraint and take steps to
  minimize damage and injury and preserve life,” Heather
  McGill, Ukraine Researcher at Amnesty International, has said.
  
  Amnesty stressed that “an independent, impartial
  investigation should be launched into the events leading up to
  today’s reported loss of life at checkpoints around
  Slavyansk,” adding that “if it is found the Ukrainian
  forces violated international standards and resorted to arbitrary
  or abusive use of force, they must be brought to justice.”
  Blasting the seizure of public buildings and detaining of foreign
  journalists by the local “pro-Russian armed group” as
  “human rights abuse,” the Amnesty added that “this
  must not be met with human rights violations by Ukrainian
  security forces.”


  Russian President Vladimir Putin called Kiev’s crackdown on anti-government
  protesters “a very serious crime.”

“If the Kiev regime started military actions against the
  country’s population, this is without doubt a very serious
  crime,” Putin said.



  He maintains that the current situation in eastern Ukraine is
  another proof that Russia was right when it supported the
  Crimeans when they decided to have a referendum.



  Meanwhile, Russian OSCE (Organization for Security and
  Co-operation in Europe) envoy Andrey Kelin proposed sending
  immediately the observers to Slavyansk, calling the city and
  near-by regions “hotspots.”


  He criticized Kiev’s ‘anti-terrorist’ operation,
  launched against anti-government protesters in the city as
  “serious violation of the Geneva agreements.”"
