"‘Americans need to realize Ukraine crisis happened because of US’

It’s embarrassing that the US labels illegitimate the decision of eastern Ukrainians to adopt self-determination and implement their own government after holding a free and fair vote, founder of the Wide Awake News Website Charlie McGrath told RT.

RT:Washington has deemed the referendum in
  east Ukraine illegal. However, a huge number of people turned out
  to vote. Shouldn't their opinions count for something?

Charlie McGrath: No, it doesn’t count for
  anything as far as the West is concerned and you don’t have to
  take my or your word for it, just look at the actions over the
  last several months. A duly elected government in Ukraine
  overthrown with the help of the West and the banking cabal that
  dominates policy in the West. So it certainly seems that
  individual sovereignty nation and sovereignty self-governance is
  no longer a factor when it comes to the West policy.


RT:The US has also blamed Russia for
  failing to stop the referendums. What's your reaction to those
  accusations?

CM: It’s disgusting and it’s embarrassing. It’s
  embarrassing for me as an American. What if we stood back and
  listened to the British a little bit longer all those years ago
  when we decided to break away, have referendum and have a vote of
  independence. The fact that the US has their press secretary
  coming out before the cameras of the world and saying that people
  deciding that they are going to be self-determining, that they
  are going to implement the government that is ruled by
  themselves, the people, and have a free and fair vote, calling it
  illegitimate, calling it everything what it is because the people
  speaking out is disgusting. And every American who buys in to
  this malarkey that they were fed about how Putin’s involved, they
  need to wake up and realize what’s happening because it is
  happening in our name.



  You can listen to Congressman Dennis Kucinich who breaks it down.
  He is not afraid of saying like it is. We have 60-plus programs
  run by quasi-government agencies or tax dollars, 60 programs to
  destabilize and in fact to have a coup d’?tat inside Ukraine that
  led to this current disaster that we have now.


RT:The State Department has alleged there
  were violations during the voting. Doesn't this give the
  impression that the State Department is making accusations
  without any real evidence?

CM: It looks like it is written by CIA or some
  other Intelligence alphabet agency thrown on a teleprompter and
  regurgitated to the people of the West. It’s really unfortunate
  that the vast majority of Americans will buy into this garbage.
  We have boots on the ground in Poland. The day after Geneva
  agreement we had airborne troops on the ground in Poland, [which]
  were surrounding this region with our men, our women and our
  blood and treasure to be sacrificed in order to carry out this
  banker-funded IMF demanded war.


RT:Moscow has just announced that Ukraine
  will have to pay for natural gas in advance, due to its $3.5
  billion debt for earlier supplies. The US Spokesperson Jen Psaki
  also accused Russia of using energy as a bargaining chip with
  Kiev. Do you think it's reasonable to expect Russia to abandon
  its economic interests when it comes to Ukraine?

CM: No, absolutely not. If they are selling
  energy, they need to be paid for energy. That is third-grader
  economics right there. And it was really telling listening to her
  speak once again, she was reading from the prepared statement off
  a teleprompter. And when one reporter just gives her basic common
  sense questions “Don’t they deserve to get paid for energy
  that they provided?” and she can’t answer. She just got to
  go back and look what the CIA will tell her to say next when it
  comes to push back on this propaganda.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
