"MOSCOW, April 26 (Xinhua) -- Russian President Vladimir Putin and his U.S. counterpart Barack Obama have not stopped contact due to the situation in Ukraine, the Kremlin said Saturday.

The conversation is continuing quite regularly. The previous conversation between the two presidents took place last week, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the Echo of Moscow radio station.

There are a lot of disagreements now, and therefore these dialogues are sometimes very tough, but nevertheless, communication is continuing.

Some Western media had earlier reported that Putin and Obama had severed their direct contacts because of the ongoing crisis in Ukraine.

Russia's Federal Migration Service said Friday the country has introduced border control on the crossing points between its newly-adopted republic of Crimea and Ukraine.

Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov accused the West of attempting to capture Ukraine for geopolitical projects, while U.S. State Secretary John Kerry accused Russia of refusing to take a single concrete step in the right direction in the past seven days.

The leaders of the Group of Seven (G7) industrialized nations agreed Friday night to impose more sanctions on Russia over its inaction in easing the tension in eastern Ukraine.

Also on Friday, acting Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk accused Russia of violating the compromise Geneva agreement and urged the international community to unite their efforts to secure peace in the world.

The standoff between Russia and Ukraine peaked on Thursday, when Russia began drills near the border with Ukraine in response to Kiev's anti-terror operation, which left five pro-Moscow protesters dead. 

Related:

Cameron discusses Ukraine crisis with Obama, European leaders

LONDON, April 25 (Xinhua) -- British Prime Minister David Cameron on Friday discussed the ongoing crisis in Ukraine with U.S. President Barack Obama, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Francois Hollande and Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi in a phone call, a Downing Street spokesperson said.

The five leaders welcomed the efforts by the Ukrainian government to implement the Geneva agreement, including cooperation with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and working towards constitutional reform and decentralization, a Downing Street spokesperson said in a statement following the phone call. Full story

Obama informs European leaders of U.S. intent to impose fresh sanctions on Russia

WASHINGTON, April 25 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Barack Obama on Friday called leaders of France, Germany, Italy and Britain, informing them of U.S. intent to impose fresh targeted sanctions on Russia in response to its failure to help to ease tension in eastern Ukraine, the White House said.

In his separate phone talks with the leaders, Obama told them that The United States is prepared to impose targeted sanctions to respond to Russia's latest actions, the White House said in a readout of the talks. Full story

Putin highlights importance of culture for national unity

MOSCOW, April 23 (Xinhua) -- President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday Russia should adopt a state program which would establish a single cultural space throughout the country.

Culture is the main essence uniting a nation. It doesn't much matter what is his formal ethnicity. What's important is how a person identifies himself, Putin told his cultural adviser Vladimir Tolstoy during a meeting. Full story"
