"Moscow: Kiev and western sponsors directly responsible for bloodshed in E.Ukraine

Kiev’s government and its western allies bear full responsibility for the recent bloodshed in Ukraine, Russia’s presidential spokesman has said, adding it is now impossible to convince people in the region to disarm  because their lives are under threat.


  Spokesperson for Russian President Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Peskov,
  released an official statement following the tragic events in
  Odessa. 39 anti-government activists have died in a fire at the Trade Unions House there,
  after the building was set ablaze by pro-Kiev radicals. Some anti-Kiev protesters burned to death,
  while others suffocated or jumped out of windows, the Ukrainian
  Interior Ministry said.



  Peskov expressed deep condolences for the families of those who
  died in the tragedy on behalf of President Vladimir Putin and
  said the Kiev government and the West had blood on their hands.


“The authorities in Kiev not only bear direct responsibility,
  but are complicit in these criminal activities. Their arms are up
  to the elbows in blood,” Peskov said.



  He said the tragedy in Odessa was the product of “the
  connivance of those who consider themselves the authority in
  Kiev.”

“They allowed extremists and radicals to burn unarmed people
  alive. I stress that these people were unarmed.”


  Peskov condemned the position adopted by Washington and a number
  of European countries as motivated by cynicism.


“It is the highest manifestation of cynicism. The people who
  justify this punitive operation are the same ones that did not
  allow the legitimate President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovich, to
  bring order to the country,” said Peskov, referring to the
  special operation being carried out in the East of Ukraine at the
  order of the Kiev government.



  The latest escalation in the fighting in eastern Ukraine has made
  it impossible for any nation to convince people to disarm in the
  region because their lives are at risk, said Peskov.


“In spite of consistent attempts to encourage dialogue,
  Russia has hit against provocation not only from Kiev, but also
  its Western sponsors, he said, stressing that Russia could
  not find a solution to the current conflict on its own.



  Addressing the Ukrainian elections that are set to take place
  later this month, Peskov said the prospect of such a vote was
  “absurd” while violence continues to rage in the
  country.



  The president’s spokesperson announced on Friday that Kiev had
  effectively destroyed the last vestige of hope for implementing
  the Geneva agreement on de-escalating the Ukrainian crisis by
  unleashing a ‘punitive operation’ in eastern Ukraine. Russia
  views the operation as criminal and has urged the Ukrainian
  government not to use force against unarmed civilians.



  However, the EU and the US have both supported the Kiev
  government’s operation. President Barack Obama called it “a
  move to restore order,” while EU foreign policy chief
  Catherine Ashton said the state's monopoly on the legitimate
  use of violence needs to be respected.“Our colleagues in the West are basically trying to justify
  the large number of murders we are seeing,” said Peskov,
  calling Ashton’s statement “monstrous.”
  When asked how Russia would react to the escalating conflict in
  Ukraine, Peskov said he was unable to answer that question at
  present.
  “This is unknown territory for us,” said the
  presidential spokesperson, adding that the Russian government has
  received thousands of calls from southeastern Ukraine, demanding
  Moscow’s help.
  
  “Desperate people call, they ask for help. The vast majority want
  Russia’s help,” said Peskov. “All of these calls are
  reported to President Vladimir Putin.”"
