"MOSCOW, May 6 (RIA Novosti), Daria Chernyshova – The US government might be ready to provide military aid to Ukraine, but American taxpayers would prefer their dollars be spent on domestic programs, President of the Center for Citizen Initiatives Sharon Tennison told RIA Novosti.

“Washington may be ready to give $100 million, but American taxpayers are not,” Tennison said.

“The grassroots, or main street America, want their tax dollars spent on education, healthcare, rebuilding infrastructure, and local programs,” she added, commenting on allegations that Washington could provide Ukraine with $100 million in military aid.

The Ukrainian Inter TV channel earlier reported that Republican congressmen are ready to provide $100 million in military aid to Ukraine. Republican Senator John McCain has suggested submitting the bill to Congress as soon as possible as time works against them.

“In any case, if so, the money would be wasted,” Tennison told RIA Novosti. “Americans at the grassroots are not behind this war effort – or for that matter involvement with Ukraine. Only some 14 percent polled believe we should be involved.  This leaves 86 percent who think we shouldn't be involved,” Tennison said, citing the results of the last week poll.

The US has become a war-weary nation. Tennison, who travelled around American states for the past year and spoke with the people on these issues, says Americans “are definitely not in the mood for being involved in more wars.”

Russia has repeatedly urged the international community to let the Ukrainians decide on their future themselves, as did the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In a situation where Washington provides military aid to Kiev, Tennison believes Russia should remain at a distance.

“As awful as it is, it would be worse if Russia gets involved,” she said. “If Russia doesn't get involved, it will show to the rest of the world what is being perpetrated in Ukraine and by whom.”

“It is a matter for the Ukrainians themselves to deal with these issues, OSCE Secretary General Lamberto Zannier told RIA Novosti Monday. “It is the responsibility of the Ukrainian leadership to ensure that there is balance in the public engagement,” he added.

Last month, as the US, EU, Russia and Ukraine met in Geneva, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the most important result of the quadrilateral talks was that all parties agreed the Ukrainians should settle the situation themselves, with minimal interference by foreign mediators."
