"BELLINZONA (Switzerland), April 27, /ITAR-TASS/. Switzerland has shown an example of constructive dialogue and co-operation, demonstrating in the difficult political situation the right approach to the solution of the acute problem that has been caused by the Ukrainian crisis, deputy speaker of the Federation Council upper house of Russia’s parliament Yuri Vorobyov told Itar-Tass. He paid a working visit to Switzerland as a co-chair of the Switzerland-Russia inter-parliamentary friendship group.

“The position of Switzerland is very cautious and is based on an attempt to preserve its neutrality and simultaneously not to break relations with the European Union,” Vorobyov said. “But, nevertheless, Switzerland is showing an example of constructive dialogue and co-operation.”

“Switzerland today is a country in the European Union that demonstrates in the difficult political situation the right approach to the solution of the acute problem,” the FC member added.

The co-chair of the friendship group from the Swiss side, President of the Council of States (upper house) of the parliament of Switzerland Filippo Lombardi for his part expressed the hope for mediator efforts of the confederation, especially in view of the fact that it chairs this year the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). “Switzerland currently presides in the OSCE, and we hope that it will play its decisive role in the current difficult situation,” Lombardi said.

Bern had previously refused to automatically repeat the EU and U.S. sanctions, imposed on Russia in response to its position on Ukraine. At the same time, the Federal Council (government) of Switzerland has taken measures, not allowing the “blacklisted” by the EU persons to bypass the sanctions, using Swiss banks. Thus, they are prohibited to transfer money to Swiss banks, however, their existing accounts there will not be frozen.

Vrorobyov also criticised the conduct of the majority of European parliamentarians in light of the Ukrainian crisis. “In May we wanted to hold a meeting of the Association of European Senates, but many countries have still not answered to this invitation or have refused,” he said. “How can we settle complex political issues without meeting at the parliamentary level, without discussing the hot issues and without hearing both sides,” the FC deputy speaker said, calling such an approach “an obvious demonstration of a counterproductive, wrong conduct of politicians."
