"Medical jet with wounded RT journalist lands in Moscow

An injured RT journalist has been flown to Moscow, where he will receive further treatment. After three days of negotiations, Ukraine allowed the medical jet to land in Donetsk. The man was severely wounded while covering a military operation in Mariupol.


  A German medical jet, arranged by RT TV channel to pick up freelance videojournalist Fyodor Zavaleykov,
  23, landed in Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport.


“We are glad that we have finally managed to transport our
  cameraman from Mariupol to Moscow, where he will receive all
  necessary help so that he recovers as soon as possible after
  sustaining a severe wound,” RT's Editor-in-Chief Margarita
  Simonyan said.


“We are also very grateful to the medics at Mariupol
  hospital, who did everything possible to save our journalist’s
  life. Thank God he was wearing a bulletproof vest. According to
  doctors, if not for the bulletproof vest, he would have died at
  the scene,” she added.



  The transportation to the Russian capital became possible after
  three days of negotiations, during which the Ukrainian side
  refused to allow the medical evacuation jet to land at the
  nearest airport in Mariupol.



  Ukrainian officials eventually gave permission for the wounded RT
  video contributor to be picked up in the city of Donetsk, some
  113km away from Mariupol. He was driven there in an ambulance.



  On the way to Moscow, Ukraine also demanded that the plane make a
  stop at Dnepropetrovsk.



  From Domodedovo, the wounded man was rushed to a Moscow hospital.



  The journalist from RT’s Ruptly video contribution team sustained
  a serious injury in the abdomen during the armed assault of
  Kiev’s army on Mariupol Police HQ on May 9 while trying to film.



    Bullet that Fyodr was shot with. Surgeon says flack jacket
    saved Fyodr's life #Ukraine@Ruptlypic.twitter.com/p84Xk6T04V
    — alina eprimian (@leena_ep) May
    12, 2014


  In a serious condition, he was immediately delivered to a local
  hospital, where he underwent surgery.



  A resident of Mariupol witnessed Zavaleykov being shot and shared
  video evidence with the channel.


“Your employee was on [Georgievskaya] street,” not far
  from the Internal Affairs HQ building where the fighting took
  place, the resident said.



  In the footage given to RT, the journalist can be seen before and
  after the gunshots, along with armed men in masks and military
  uniforms.


“We were approximately 300-400 meters away from the Internal
  Affairs HQ building. Your journalist was showing to the armed
  people in masks that he was unarmed and that he was with the
  press, that he was a journalist. Then he tried to cross the
  street, and that’s when the shot was made and he fell down,”
  the resident said in an interview to RT.



  After that “he crawled to a car and hid behind it.”



  People at the scene stopped a passing car to deliver him to a
  hospital for emergency help.


“We asked for traffic police officers who were close by for
  their help. One of them helped to drag your journalist and put
  him in a car,” he said.



  The resident said “there was no way [Zavaleykov] could have
  provoked the shooting because he had been making clear that he
  was a journalist and wanted to come closer in order to capture
  video.”


  On May 9, Kiev forces, using heavy weaponry, tanks and APCs,
  stormed the local Interior Ministry building, where police had
  barricaded themselves inside.



  According to self-defense forces in the city, “policemen of
  the local department refused to obey Kiev’s orders and guard the
  building of the city council, which had been seized a day earlier
  by the Ukrainian security services.”


  Kiev authorities decided to storm the building of the city’s
  Interior Ministry.



  As residents flocked to the scene, Kiev fighters opened fire on
  civilians. That day many of the residents were out in the streets
  celebrating WWII Victory Day. As the reports of shooting started
  coming in, they moved to the police HQ. A total nine people were
  killed and another 49 injured.



  The European Federation of Journalists (EFJ) and International
  Federation of Journalists (IFJ) have condemned violations of
  journalists' rights. The organizations vowed to continue to
  “call for respect for journalists' work in all parts of the
  conflicts”.


“We keep monitoring the situation and will support
  independent journalists in covering the conflict and thereby
  fulfilling their duty as journalists where and when we can,”
  Renate Schroeder, Director of the EFJ told RT.



  The EFJ wished a quick recovery to RT’s freelance
  videojournalist.



  Earlier, the Society of Professional Journalists said it was
  “gravely concerned” by “violence and
  repression” targeting journalists covering unrest in
  Ukraine."
