"'Obama and Kerry fail to show leadership qualities required to settle Ukrainian issue'

The US had set their eyes on the idea to make Ukraine the 29th EU state or perhaps even the 52nd US state, though it doesn’t have any clear scenario and simply continues blamestorming Russia, global financial markets expert Patrick Young told RT.

RT:President Obama says Russia's done
  nothing to meet its Geneva pledges. However, it’s likely to be
  more applicable to the US itself. Why is Washington acting like
  this?

Patrick Young: I think the State Department is
  probably under great stress at the moment. Of course we’ve seen
  President Obama, in the course of the last three or four days,
  doing shuttle diplomacy through South-East Asia. This was
  supposed to be an incredible ceremonial tour where he would sign
  multiple free trade agreements, including with Japan. Instead he
  ended up to play football with robots in Tokyo. Why? Because
  ultimately his trade agenda is failing as it goes along.
  Therefore, given the poor quality of negotiation skills by the
  US, it’s hardly surprising that they are trying to do anything to
  take away the news. And therefore, we see Mr. Obama once again
  being a puppet ministered by the neo-cons that are still behind
  him, as an administration who simply see everything as being bad
  in Russia. It’s quite clear from what Mr. Lavrov has said, and
  has been saying, that he is trying everything to encourage people
  to disarm and therefore, active attempts to try to diffuse the
  Ukrainian situation.


RT:What is the American policy aimed at?
  Does the United States actually want the two sides in Ukraine to
  reach a deal?

PY: I think it’s very worrying because certainly
  the US seems to have had a remarkable transition in Ukraine. It
  seemed to be absolutely fine when you wanted to mount barricades
  in Maidan and there were people like John McCain to speak to
  them. Not only we have got this very fractured situation in
  Eastern Ukraine about which the Russians had previously warned
  us. Ultimately we have got a singular failure of diplomacy but
  particularly from the Western side at the moment. And of course
  what is happening, President Obama is rushing off to this mantra
  of claiming that he wants even greater sanctions.


RT:What does the United States expect of
  Russia, then? It can't send in its military to disarm the
  pro-Russian protesters in Ukraine. It's asked them to disarm,
  what more can it do?

PY: Personally I’m confused because let’s put it
  another way. If Russia sent in troops to forcibly disarm the
  people who are holding the buildings, then America would claim
  they are invading. I really don’t know. The American picture is
  not clear. The Foreign Secretary Mr. Kerry perennially, as we
  know from his election campaign for president, has always been
  one peppermint tea short of a full bag of coffee when he is at
  the diner. Ultimately it’s a huge problem in this environment at
  the moment. I don’t think America knows what it wants because
  ultimately America had set their eyes on the idea Ukraine is
  going to be something like the 29th state of the EU or perhaps
  even the 52nd state of the US. None of those were ever going to
  come to pass, the money is not there from the US and Europe to
  support whether it’s the rump Ukraine or whichever part of
  Ukraine it is. It’s confusing. America is not clear and simply
  blamestorming Russia is not going to help the
  situation.


RT:Neither Kiev nor the protesters seem to
  have stuck to the Geneva accord. Are they each waiting for the
  other side to act first?

PY: The problem we have here is a huge loss of
  faith on all parts. America clearly doesn’t trust Russia, at the
  same time there is a huge number of people on the ground in
  Ukraine who’ve been simply left behind. We are not talking about
  particularly the Eastern Ukrainians who have actually invaded
  these buildings, those occupying groups are one thing. But
  actually let’s face it: Ukraine is being run by a
  non-democratically appointed government that seems to have the
  blessing of the US. It’s not democratic, there are democratic
  elections supposedly taking place at the moment but as we can
  see, all the great powers are in there trying to shuffle things
  for their influence. It looks very 19th century in the way the
  things are going on at the moment.


RT:Why can’t the sides of the conflict
  reach any compromise? Or why the US doesn’t want to negotiate
  with Russia at least?

PY: Unfortunately, it is very difficult and this
  is a situation because after all as we know President Yanukovich,
  who was deeply flawed in his ability to govern, but was
  nonetheless the democratically elected president, ultimately had
  to flee the day after we had a group of Western politicians
  telling us that they had come to a wondrous solution in Kiev.
  Therefore, when there are challenges over the whole issue, it
  really requires leadership and statesmanship. The terrible
  problem is that Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry repeatedly fail to have
  those abilities that they demonstrate. Let’s put it another way.
  Today we are celebrating in Poland the canonization of Pope John
  Paul II, there was leader and he stood on the world stage at the
  time we had Mrs. Thatcher, Ronald Reagan – they may have been the
  absolute enemies of the old Soviet system but they were people
  who could do business with and did business with Mr. Gorbachev at
  the time. That’s the total change that we have in this situation,
  we have a series of political pygmies throughout the West, none
  of whom really realize that their word must be their bond.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
