"MOSCOW, May 31 /ITAR-TASS/. Russia has developed three projects of promising aircraft-carrying cruisers, but effective state armament programme does not envisage construction of these warships, Deputy Defence Minister Yuri Borisov said on Saturday. 


“Effective state armament programme does not plan to build aircraft carriers. Will they be built in the future? May be, I will put it this way,” he said live on radio station Russian News Service.

Borisov noted that construction of aircraft carriers belonged to fulfillment of the country’s military doctrine. “We have three projects of aircraft carriers. The time will show how they will be needed, we do not give up this issue definitely,” the deputy defence minister added. He noted that Krylov Shipbuilding Research Institute had developed current projects that envisage construction of aircraft carriers with a nuclear power unit.

Borisov recalled that the country’s leadership had approved a long-term shipbuilding programme this month. In his words, the document focused on unification in shipbuilding.

“This [the programme] rules out interference in fulfillment of the military-technical policy in this sphere by newly-appointed commanders or someone else. This is a serious programme that has the following main tasks: reduce the range of types, ensure security of our sea borders in near and far sea areas on the principles of reasonable sufficiency and use the principle of unification as much as possible,” the Russian deputy defence minister noted. “Ships should have longer service lives - not 30 years, but at least 50 years,” he added.

Russia’s promising ICBM can overcome any missile defence

A promising heavy, liquid-fuel intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) which is being developed in Russia is a unique weapon that can overcome any missile defence, Deputy Defence Minister Yuri Borisov said on Saturday.

“This heavy missile is actually a unique weapon that the United States does not have,” he said live on radio station Russian News Service.

“As for its payload capacity it can carry such anti-missile defence weapons and can have such a large energy reserve that it can fly over the North Pole and over the South Pole,” the deputy defence minister added.

In his words, this military development will be equipped with “highly manoeuvrable warheads.” “This is a very serious weapon and they are seriously afraid of it,” Borisov stated.

“Developments which Russian military enterprises are producing are not inferior in their characteristics [to foreign weapons]. Today we do not seek to contract projects that cede to foreign models, it is senseless,” the deputy defence minister stated."
