"?Italy threatens release of refugees into EU if assistance doesn’t increase

Italy is threatening to allow refugees currently residing within its borders to make forays into the rest of the European Union unless the EU increases assistance in managing the influx of migrants arriving via boats from North Africa.


  Interior Minister Angelino Alfano demanded on Tuesday that the EU
  step up its efforts.
  “The European Union has two options: either it comes to the
  Mediterranean to put the EU flag onMare Nostrum or we will let
  migrants with right of asylum leave for other countries,”
  Alfano wrote on Twitter.
  
  The demand comes shortly after the Italian Navy was forced to
  rescue some 200 refugees and retrieve 17 bodies after a boat
  carrying African migrants sunk off the coast of Libya. The
  accident happened on Monday, some 100 miles south of the Italian
  island of Lampedusa. Four-hundred people were thought to be
  trying to attempt the crossing from Libya.
  
  The European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Cecilia Malmstrom,
  did not immediately respond to Reuters’ request for a statement.
  
  On Monday, the Libyan government also said it was struggling to
  cope with immigrants attempting to depart the country’s shores
  for Europe.
  “This was the second shipwreck in a week,” Admiral Mario
  Culcasi, commander of the Mare Nostrum task force set up to deal
  with the crisis, told Reuters. “They are a symptom perhaps of
  the difficulties that the smugglers are facing, above all in
  finding seaworthy boats,” he said.
  
  Libyan Interior Minister Salah Mazek told a news conference last
  weekend, before the tragedy struck, that: “I’m warning the world
  and Europe in particular – if they do not assume their
  responsibilities, Libya could facilitate the transit of this
  flood of immigrants towards Europe.”
  
  More than 4,000 migrants concealed in smugglers boats made it to
  Italy's shores in the past week alone. At least 34,800 people
  have made the crossing already this year – compared to 43,000
  across the whole of 2013.
  
  Hundreds have died in overcrowded, rickety, and unstable boats
  while attempting the crossing. UN refugee agency UNHCR says it is
  uncertain why there has been a spike in immigrant numbers this
  year, though some have concluded that it is a result of Egypt
  becoming less accommodating for Syrian refugees, as well as
  Morocco becoming an increasingly difficult location from which to
  travel to Europe.
  
  The situation is likely to deteriorate as weather improves, Chris
  Lom, spokesman for the International Organization for Migration,
  told Reuters.
  
  The topic of immigration is currently a high priority in the EU,
  with less than two weeks before European parliamentary elections.
  The issue affects the southernmost countries far more than the
  central EU block, and the south has long been demanding extra
  support to cope with the problem.
  
  A large proportion of the migrants hope to travel on to
  economically secure countries; Italy’s employment rate remains at
  a nearly 40-year high."
