"Russia sues EU over ‘Third Energy Package’ - report

Russia has filed a lawsuit with the World Trade Organization (WTO) over the EU's so-called 'Third Energy Package,' according to media reports.

“This procedure is provided for in the rules of the
  Organization,” a source said, adding that “Russia sent a note to
  the EU Mission at the WTO and notified the WTO Secretariat
  thereof,” Itar-Tass news agency reported.



  A second news agency, Interfax, stated that a “source close
  to WTO” spoke of “the start [of a] court
  examination.” The agency said it obtained confirmation from
  the director of the Ministry of Economic Development’s department
  of trade negotiations, Maksim Medvedkov.



  Signed in 2007, the Third Energy Package outlines a set of rules
  regulating the European gas and electricity market. The European
  Commission insists the Third Energy Package was aimed at
  increasing competition on the energy market, allowing other
  players to join the sector and liberalizing energy prices.



  One of the core elements prohibits a single company from both
  owning and operating a gas pipeline and contains rules on third
  party access to the natural oil transportation grid.


“These and other elements of the Third Energy Package, in the
  opinion of Russia, contradict the obligations of the EU in WTO on
  basic principles of non-discrimination and market access...the
  Third Energy Package creates serious obstacles to ensure a stable
  supply of Russian gas to the EU, including a threat to the
  construction of new transport infrastructure, for example, in the
  framework of the ‘South Stream,'” Medvedkov told Interfax.



  Moscow broke ground on the South Stream project after securing
  agreements with intergovernmental agreements with all countries
  which the pipeline would pass through: Austria, Bulgaria,
  Hungary, Greece, Serbia, Slovenia, and Croatia.



  The Third Energy regulation mandates 50 percent of the pipeline
  can be operated by Russia's Gazprom, but the other 50 percent
  must be operated by a third party, a condition Russian energy
  ministers do not accept, as Gazprom is the only company that has
  the right to export gas via pipeline.



  Russian President Vladimir Putin previously stated that the
  Third Energy Package and other documents “should not be
  backdated to the contracts that were signed before the decision
  on the Third Energy Package came into force.”



  Medvedkov has stressed that Russia has unsuccessfully tried to
  solve “emerging problems” on a bilateral level.



  Now, under WTO rules, Russia and the EU have 60 days to hold
  joint consultations. If no solution is found during this time,
  Moscow can demand the right to initiate the creation of a group
  of independent arbitrators to look into the case.



  However, Medvedkov has not ruled out the possibility of Russia
  and the EU reaching an agreement during consultations.


“We do not aim to have legal proceedings with Brussels for
  the sake of the judicial process, we want to ensure predictable
  conditions for export to the EU under WTO rules,” he said.



  The Third Energy Package is a set of regulations for an internal
  gas and electricity market in the European Union. Its purpose is
  to further expand the gas and electricity markets in the European
  Union. The package was proposed by the European Commission in
  September 2007 and adopted by the European Parliament and the
  Council of the European Union in July 2009. It entered into force
  on September 3, 2009.



  In late 2013, Russia filed a lawsuit against the EU over energy
  adjustments."
