"Ukraine vote with ongoing military op may deepen crisis – Moscow

May 25th presidential vote in Ukraine may aggravate the crisis if military operations in the south-eastern regions are not halted and the OSCE road map drawn to settle the situation is not implemented, Russian deputy foreign minister has said.


  Grigory Karasin also underlined the necessity for a nationwide
  dialogue to discuss constitutional reform in Ukraine in
  accordance with the April 17 Geneva agreements reached during
  talks between Russia, Ukraine, the EU, and the US.



  “Without the implementation of the agreements that were
  reached, and the immediate cessation of the military units'
  actions in the southeastern regions, the upcoming elections on
  May 25 can only worsen the differences in the country,”
  Karasin said at a meeting with the British Ambassador to Russia
  Tim Barrow, the foreign ministry cited in a statement.



  The Russian side voiced concern over the ongoing military
  operation in south-east Ukraine, which “blocks any real steps
  to deescalate the situation in the county,” the statement
  reads.



  The two diplomats discussed how the international community can
  help to find a way out of the crisis in the former Soviet
  republic.



  The unrest began in November last year, after President Viktor
  Yanukovich put on hold the signing of the association agreement
  with the European Union, because, as he explained, at that moment
  it would be against national interests. The decision triggered
  months of fierce protests on Kiev’s Maidan square which ended
  with a February coup and the ouster of Yanukovich.



  Since then, bloody unrest has moved to eastern Ukrainian regions
  where many oppose the new Kiev government and want more autonomy.
  The new Ukrainian authorities, in response, deployed military
  forces to the rebel territories to suppress protesters, or
  “terrorists” and “separatists” as the Kiev government refers to
  them.



  On Tuesday, the Ukrainian parliament called for an end to the
  military operation in the country’s east and hold immediate talks
  on constitutional reform which would grant the status of the
  Russian language and give broad powers to regions. However, this
  is yet to materialize into any concrete steps on Kiev’s behalf.



  Meanwhile, the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk “people’s republics” said
  they would not hold elections.



  Lugansk parliament Monday banned the presidential vote and
  campaign and, also, halted the activities of election commissions
  since they are “illegal” on the republic’s soil, reported
  Interfax.



  Donetsk said it will not recognize the election results.



  “Here is a sovereign state – Donetsk People’s Republic. We
  are entitled to decide ourselves what will be done on our
  territory,” the republic’s press-service told Itar-Tass on
  Saturday. “We consider Ukraine’s attempt to have elections
  here as an activity of another state on an occupied
  territory.”



  Ukrainian Interior Minister admitted that it will not be possible
  to hold elections in a number of districts in both Lugansk and
  Donetsk regions.



  “We are fully aware…that it will no longer be possible to
  hold in a normal way elections on the vast territory of Donesk
  and Lugansk regions,” Arsen Avakov told a media conference
  on Monday, as cited by RIA Novosti. However, he added, elections
  will still take place on May 25 in several districts.



  Donesk and Lugansk proclaimed self-rule following May-11
  referendums, which were labeled as illegal by Kiev and the West.
  The Ukrainian coup-imposed government listed the republics as
  ‘terrorist’ organizations and launched criminal cases to
  investigate their formation.



  Russia’s President Vladimir Putin said earlier that the elections
  itself “is a movement in a right direction.” But “it
  won’t solve anything if all Ukrainian citizens will not
  understand how their rights will be guaranteed after the holding
  of this presidential vote,” he said May 7, after a meeting
  with Swiss President Didier Burkhalter, the Chairman-in-Office of
  the OSCE."
