"Shells hit school, kindergarten in Slavyansk amid Ukraine military op (VIDEO)

A school and a kindergarten have been shelled in Slavyansk as the city becomes increasingly unsafe in the intensified Kiev military campaign. At least 9 civilians were injured in WednesdayТs shelling incidents, including a child.


  Ukrainian mortar shells have for weeks been raining down on the
  checkpoints and positions of the Slavyansk self-defense, but much
  of the shelling occurred outside the city. Italian journalist
  Andrea Rocchelli and his Russian interpreter, veteran human
  rights activist Andrey Mironov, were almost Уtorn to piecesФ in one such
  shelling.
  
  However, this week the battleground apparently moved right into
  civilian quarters of Slavyansk, as shells started hitting
  residential blocks and nearby buildings, killing three people on Monday.



    PHOTO: Shelled school in #Slavyansk,
    E.#Ukrainehttp://t.co/VEWkRrxJ8epic.twitter.com/Ow2KgLeEIu
    Ч RT (@RT_com) 28 ма€
    2014


  On Wednesday, there was a shocking reminder of how the situation
  might unfold if the likely president-elect Petro Poroshenko
  pushes on with the military operation in the region, as shells
  struck the cityТs streets, yards, a school and a kindergarten.



  RT talked to a male schoolteacher from Slavyansk school number
  13, who asked not to be named.
  УAround midday there was a loud explosion in the school, and
  I fell to the floor, taking cover,Ф the teacher told RT over
  the phone.
  
  The man said that he rushed to the corridor to assemble all the
  teachers and children in the school and take them to a safe
  place. Clouds of dust were billowing on one side of the building.



  According to the teacher, it turned out that the shell exploded
  right above the school hall, where children are usually gathered
  for festive events, and part of the roof Уwas simply blown
  away.Ф


    ¬от какие рисунки € сфотографировал в этом самом актовом зале,
    подвергшейс€ обстрелу школы... pic.twitter.com/UermIvTCiN
    Ч јндрей  раснощЄков (@a_krasnoschekov) 
    May 28, 2014


  Luckily, no children were in the hall at the time. All the pupils
  and teachers were quickly evacuated to the basement.
  
  It was not immediately clear, if there were any casualties in the
  kindergarten or other places shelled in Slavyansk, but the
  Rossiya-24 channel reported that 9 people were injured in total,
  including a 4-year-old boy. The channelТs crew narrowly escaped a
  direct hit by a mortar shell, as it fell Уliterally next to
  our car.Ф


  Photos of the sites of WednesdayТs mortar attacks emerged on
  social media, showing partially destroyed buildings, craters in
  the roads, and what appeared to be blood.



    ћесто падени€ снар€да на ул.Ѕатюка.¬ыбиты окна в
    киосках,продавцы, покупатели пр€тались за прилавками.Ќа асф-те
    кровь pic.twitter.com/drkkYP0VTz
    Ч јндрей  раснощЄков (@a_krasnoschekov) 
    May 28, 2014


    ќт попадани€ осколка загорелс€ припарков.авто на ул.Ѕатюка.
    ¬сего на этом перекрЄстке ранены 9 человек, убитых нет.
    pic.twitter.com/DUzMiIjvql
    Ч јндрей  раснощЄков (@a_krasnoschekov) 
    May 28, 2014


  The Kiev forces quickly laid the blame on self-defense units,
  which they refer to as Уterrorists.ФУCurrently, we are confirming the information on the
  terroristsТ shelling of the residential quarters and the
  territory of the school in Slavyansk,Ф the commander of
  KievТs military operation in southeastern Ukraine, Vladislav
  Seleznyov, wrote on his Facebook page.



  Meanwhile, several funerals of those killed in MondayТs shelling
  were held in Slavyansk on Wednesday. According to the latest
  reports, four people have died from shrapnel wounds since then.
  
  The shelling damaged a block of flats and a dormitory in the
  cityТs teachersТ college, shattering glass in the windows of the
  college. Power lines and, reportedly, a city water pipeline were
  damaged and disrupted by the blasts.



    #StopUkrainianArmy
    #SaveDonbassChildren
    #SaveDonbassPeople#humanrights
    #HumanRightsActivist#antimaidan
    STOP WAR! pic.twitter.com/UKfvdb6mZZЧ Vadim Izvozchikov (@izvozchikov) May
  27, 2014


  While the Kiev authorities keep asserting that the military
  action in the southeast is meant to protect the people against
  Уterrorists,Ф many people on the ground in Slavyansk
  have a directly opposite opinion on the issue.
  УWe are simply horrified Ц you see? Horrified that our 'brave
  army,' which we pay taxes to maintain, is [doing] nothing else
  but destroying us. And our president, who must protect the
  civilian population Ц he is determined to exterminate us,Ф a
  woman working at the damaged school no. 13 told RTТs Ruptly news
  agency.
  УFor some reason, they think that we here in Slavyansk are
  all terrorists,Ф the woman said."
