"#NoKXL: Thousands march in D.C. against Keystone pipeline

Thousands have been marching in Washington DC to protest against the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline. Launched by Cowboy and Indian Alliance, the six-day event “Reject and Protect” is aimed at urging President Barack Obama to refuse the project.


  A mass crowd of protesters joined Saturday the anti-pipeline
  rally in Washington to say ‘No” the proposed Keystone pipeline -
  a $5.4 billion project that would pump tar sand oil from Alberta,
  Canada through the US to Texas refineries.



  Chanting slogans and carrying placards, demonstrators called on
  the president to “protect our sacred land” and “sacred
  water.” Participants of the event say on twitter that
  “thousands of #NoKXL supporters” took to streets for the
  demonstration.



    The 
    #RejectAndProtect march heads past the Capitol #nokxlpic.twitter.com/FzbPpBaWTT
    — Friends of the Earth (@foe_us) April
    26, 2014


  The event kicked off on Tuesday with the Cowboy and Indian
  Alliance, a group of ranchers, farmers, and tribal communities
  from along the Keystone pipeline route, riding on horseback
  through the American capital.



  Dressed in traditional clothes – cowboy hats and native
  headdresses – demonstrators marched through downtown DC and set
  up a camp with traditional tepees on the National Mall near the
  White House. The encampment has been the center of the week-long
  protest which included a whole bunch of events such as ‘water
  ceremonies,” “music and sharing stories,” documentary shows,
  flash-mob round dance and other ceremonies. Saturday though was
  planned as the most important day of the week, with several
  thousands of people expected to join the protest.



    Thousands of people are marching now! 
    #RejectAndProtect#NoKXLpic.twitter.com/xD8UdalYZN
    — Greenpeace USA (@greenpeaceusa) 
    April 26, 2014


  “In the American imagination, cowboys and Indians are still
  at odds. However, in reality, opposition to the Keystone XL tar
  sands pipeline has brought communities together like few causes
  in our history.Tribes, farmers and ranchers are all people of the
  land, who consider it their duty as stewards to conserve the land
  and protect the water for future generations,” a statement
  on the official website for the Reject and Protect movement said.



    Hey, Obama, we don't want that pipeline drama! 
    #RejectAndProtect#NoKXLpic.twitter.com/Vu5kkxuoUR
    — Friends of the Earth (@foe_us) April
    26, 2014


  Once bitter rivals - cowboys and Indians, aboriginal and
  non-aboriginal people, from across the US and Canada - have come
  together to fight against the pipeline.Activists fear that if the
  project, which is yet to be given a go-ahead, may cause severe
  damage to the environment, pollute water sources and pose a
  threat to public health.



  “We’re here to show Obama, to show Washington DC the very
  faces of the people that the decision of the KXL pipeline
  represents,” Dallas Goldtooth, one of the activists told a
  crowd on the mall, as cited by ABC. “These people represent
  families, they represent communities, they represent entire
  nations, so they’re here to bring their stories here to say no to
  the Keystone XL pipeline and to all pipelines.”



  “We came to D.C. with a lot of resolve to make sure that the
  president sees our faces, and sees the images of cowboys and
  tribes working together,” said Jane Kleeb, a Nebraska
  political activist who has helped lead the protest movement,
  according to CBC News website. “We think those messages from
  the communities that will be directly impacted will stay with the
  president, whether he's making a decision today or a decision in
  2015.”



    The horses at the front of the 
    #RejectAndProtect march in DC right now. #NoKXLpic.twitter.com/axMWcXAGWh
    — Jenna Pope (@JennaBPope) April
    26, 2014


  The project has been mulled over for quite a while now: Canada's
  oil industry applied to build the pipeline several years ago but
  it still needs to get the green light from Washington. The
  planned pipeline has seen strong opposition in the US, with many
  believing the carbon-intensive impact that results from the
  extraction of tar sands will worsen the effects of climate
  change. They also fear the pipeline will put nearby communities
  at risk of oil spills and their subsequent fallout.



  Last week, the White House postponed the decision on the Keystone
  oil pipeline, saying that it would give more time for federal
  agencies to weigh in on the project, and setting no new deadline
  for comments.



  The Calgary-based company that wants to build the pipeline,
  TransCanada Corporation, said it was “extremely disappointed and
  frustrated with yet another delay”.



  “Keystone XL improves American energy security, minimizes the
  environmental and safety impacts of moving that oil to U.S.
  refineries, helps contribute to jobs and American businesses and
  continues to have the support of a strong majority of Americans
  and Congress. It is truly in the national interest of America and
  a majority of Americans in poll after poll after poll continue to
  agree and just want this pipeline built,” Russ Girling,
  TransCanada’s CEO and president said in a statement.



    Despite delays #KeystoneXL#Pipeline
    retains overhelming public support. http://t.co/DtRJ5s3j0ppic.twitter.com/VsnuGUZagJ— TransCanada Corp. (@TransCanada) April
  25, 2014"
