"MOSCOW, April 13 (RIA Novosti) – Recent events in Ukraine have seen numerous incidents of police brutality and widespread abuse of power by law enforcement, according to a report published by human rights organization Amnesty International on Tuesday.

“In 2013 and 2014, Amnesty International documented several cases of abuses against protesters and opposition activists in Russia, Azerbaijan and, most visibly, in Ukraine, in response to the Euromaidan demonstrations,” the report said.

More than a thousand activists sustained injures during protests because of police brutality, Amnesty International said.

“It is estimated that over a thousand people were injured as a result of the use of excessive force by [Ukrainian] police, including the shooting of more than a hundred individuals, resulting in many deaths,” the report said.

Incidents of torture of protesters in Ukraine were also recorded, according to the watchdog. For example, a Ukrainian student taking photographs during anti-government demonstrations in Kiev in February 2014 was brutally beaten by police, the report said. Law enforcement officers broke his arm and cut him with a knife.

Amnesty International also cited an incident in which police tortured a 23-year-old computer programmer detained during January protests in Kiev.

He told his lawyer “he was beaten and passed out, and a police officer dragged him off the roof of the Dinamo football stadium colonnade by his lips and then sprayed a gas canister onto his genitals.”

The protester sustained skull and facial fractures, including of the eye socket, and a concussion. No investigation has been opened in the case.

Torture has become a widespread practice not only in Ukraine but by other governments around the world, especially in the US other countries influenced by Washington, Amnesty said.

“The US government is also failing to ensure accountability for torture and enforced disappearances committed in the context of counter-terrorism operations. No one responsible for the use of interrogation techniques such as 'water-boarding,' prolonged sleep deprivation, and stress positions in Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)-run secret detention centers around the world has been brought to justice,” the report said.

“The US Select Committee on Intelligence has conducted a review of the now-terminated CIA programme, but its 6,000-plus page report remains classified,” the survey concluded."
