"Audi’s predecessor used forced labor of Nazi concentration camp inmates – study

The German car manufacturer Audi’s predecessor company used slave labor forcing more than 3,700 concentration camp inmates to work under inhumane conditions during the Nazi rule, according to a new study commissioned by Audi as cited by the German press.


  The study based on Audi’s archives and compiled by historians
  Martin Kukowski and Rudolf Boch, reveals that the Auto Union’s
  management, the company that evolved into Audi, had very close
  ties with Nazi leaders. The research was published on Monday under the name Wartime
  Economy and Labor Deployment by Auto Union AG Chemnitz during
  World War II.


  The historians discovered that the Nazi SS defence corps built
  seven labor camps for the sole benefit of the carmaker, dpa news
  agency reported adding that more than 3,700 concentration camp
  inmates were forced to work for the Auto union.



  The study stressed that the car manufacturer’s management bears
  moral responsibility for the conditions at the plant
  near the Flossenb?rg concentration camp in the southern state of
  Bavaria. It noted that 18,000 prisoners were used for slave labor
  in the camp and 4,500 died, according to dpa.



  In addition, more than 16,500 forced laborers who were not
  interned in concentration camps also worked for Auto Union in the
  Saxon cities of Zwickau and Chemnitz. The study indicates that
  about a quarter of the prisoners were Jews.



  The Auto Union - a car maker created in 1932 after the merger of
  the German car brands Audi, DKW, Horch and Wanderer - was headed
  by Dr. Richard Bruhn, who is a particular focus of the study.



  The Father of the Auto Union Bruhn was a member of the
  Nazi party and given the status of a “Wehrwirtschaftsfuehrer.
  This quasi-military status demonstrated the company’s important
  role in the production of war materials.



  Bruhn was the Auto Unions’ chief from 1932 to 1945. At the end of
  WWII he was interned by the British. After release he again
  became head of Auto Union again following its reformation in West
  Germany. In 1953 Bruhn was awarded West Germany's Grand Cross of
  Merit for his revival of the group with funding from the US
  Marshall Plan. He died in 1964.



  After the merger with another German manufacturer NSU, the Auto
  Union was renamed Audi in 1985.



  Audi expressed deep concern over the study's findings.


I'm very shocked by the scale of the involvement of the
  former Auto Union leadership in the system of forced and slave
  labour, Audi works council head Peter Mosch told
  Wirtschaftswoche. I was not aware of the extent [of this
  involvement], he added.



  The company is reportedly considering changing the online profile
  of Bruhn removing his name from company initiatives such as
  pension plans.



  The company is the last among the German carmakers including
  Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW, which commissioned research into its
  work during the Nazi era in the country. The Volkswagen Group
  allowed an investigation of forced labor in 1996 and made
  financial contributions to a foundation helping those who were
  forced labor during Nazi rule.



  Audi is one of the largest German car makers, a member of the
  German Big 3 luxury automakers, along with BMW and
  Mercedes-Benzs. It has been mostly owned by subsidiary of
  Volkswagen Group since 1966."
