Russia's Sergey Lavrov: U.S. 'running the show' in Kiev 'without any scruples' By Greg Botelho CNN April 24 2014 -- Updated 0236 GMT (1036 HKT) NEW: Official: Gunmen fire at Ukrainian army helicopter near Slavyansk Militants still hold buildings in east; Ukraine leader restarts "anti-terrorist" operation Russian minister: U.S. has "overwhelming influence" over the new Kiev government He says pro-Russian militants in Ukraine's east are "not puppets" of Moscow (CNN) -- The Ukraine crisis simmered Wednesday if not with actual fighting then with fighting words from the key outside players in the conflict: the United States and Russia whose foreign minister accused Washington of "running the show" in Kiev. In an interview with state-run RT Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov lamented how he felt U.S. officials were quick to blame his nation for everything awry in Ukraine and to insist Moscow can unilaterally solve it all. Lavrov said that while those in Ukraine's east and south who defiantly oppose the Kiev-based government are "not puppets" of the Kremlin such a characterization would describe the relationship between Ukraine's leadership in Kiev and the United States. "(Americans) have I think overwhelming influence" he said. "They act in a much more open way without any scruples compared to the Europeans ... You cannot avoid the impression that they are running the show very much very much." As proof Lavrov pointed to the timing of the Ukrainian government's relaunch of its security operation just after a two-day visit from U.S. Vice President Joe Biden. He claimed acting President Oleksandr Turchynov has "ordered the army to shoot at ... people if they are engaged in peaceful protests" yet hasn't disarmed extremists and what he called "the right sector." Some in Ukraine's east are occupying official buildings defying the Kiev government and openly siding with Russia"after several months of total neglect of their interests" Lavrov said. The minister faulted the new Kiev government for not doing more including taking the necessary "first step" to implement an international deal brokered in Geneva Switzerland. About a week after being reached that deal has done little to defuse the crisis. On the contrary both sides appear to be digging in. Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Vitaliy Yarema said Wednesday that "the active phase of the anti-terrorist operation continues" in the eastern cities of Kramatorsk Slavyansk Donetsk and Luhansk according to state-run news agency Ukrinform. Militants in those cities have shown no inclination to leave the government buildings they have seized or disarm as was mandated by the Geneva agreement. Meanwhile NATO estimates that Russia has massed 40000 troops near its border with Ukraine which has fueled speculation the conflict could only get bigger and more violent with Russia possibly taking over some if not all of Ukraine and possibly neighboring nations. Lavrov didn't say any military intervention was imminent but he didn't rule it out either. "If our interests our legitimate interests the interests of Russians have been attacked directly -- like they were in South Ossetia for example -- I do not see any other way but to respond in accordance with international law" he told RT referring to Russia's 2008 invasion of Georgia. "Russian citizens being attacked is an attack against the Russian Federation." Pro-Russia militants armed with baseball bats and iron bars hold flares as they attack people marching for national unity in Donetsk Ukraine on Monday April 28. Ukraine has seen a sharp rise in tensions since a new pro-European government took charge of the country in February. Moscow branded the new government illegitimate and annexed Ukraine's Crimea region last month citing threats to Crimea's Russian-speaking majority. And in eastern Ukraine pro-Russian separatists have captured towns and government buildings and are holding a team of European monitors hostage. Detained observers from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe arrive to take part in a news conference Sunday April 27 in the eastern Ukrainian city of Slavyansk. Vyacheslav Ponomarev the self-declared mayor of Slavyansk referred to the observers as "prisoners of war." Ukrainian troops stand guard behind a barricade made of sandbags at a checkpoint about 30 kilometers (20 miles) from Slavyansk on April 27. Relatives and friends of a man killed in a gunfight participate in his funeral ceremony in Slavyansk on Saturday April 26. U.S. troops arrive at an air force base near Siauliai Zuokniai Lithuania on April 26. The United States is conducting military exercises in Poland Latvia Estonia and Lithuania. The exercises are in part a response to the ongoing instability in Ukraine. Ukrainian government troops in armored vehicles travel on a country road outside the town of Svyitohirsk in eastern Ukraine on April 26. Pro-Russia armed militants inspect a truck near Slavyansk on Friday April 25. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has accused the West of plotting to control Ukraine and he said the pro-Russia insurgents in the southeast would lay down their arms only if the Ukrainian government clears out the Maidan protest camp in the capital Kiev. Pro-Russia militants keep records of their duty in Slavyansk on April 25. Ukrainian troops take position near burning tires at a pro-Russian checkpoint in Slavyansk on Thursday April 24. Ukrainian special forces take position at an abandoned roadblock in Slavyansk on April 24. Cossacks carry a coffin into a church in Slavyansk on Tuesday April 22 during a funeral for men killed in a gunfight at a checkpoint two days before. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden left talks with Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk during a meeting in Kiev on April 22. An armed pro-Russian man stands on a street in Slavyansk on Monday April 21. Demonstrators attend a pro-Russian rally outside the secret service building in Lugansk Ukraine on April 21. Cars are burned out after an attack at a roadblock in Slavyansk on Sunday April 20. A resident inspects burnt-out cars at a roadblock on April 20. A pro-Russian militant is seen at the roadblock near Slavyansk on April 20. Armed pro-Russian militants stand guard at a roadblock near Slavyansk on April 20. A masked man stands guard outside a regional administration building seized by pro-Russian separatists in Slavyansk on Friday April 18. People walk around barricades April 18 set up at the regional administration building that was seized earlier in Donetsk. Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks to the media after a nationally televised question-and-answer session in Moscow on Thursday April 17. Putin denied that Russian forces are involved in the unrest in eastern Ukraine though he did say for the first time that Russians were active in Crimea before the peninsula voted to join the country. Ukrainian riot police officers stand guard during a pro-Ukrainian demonstration in Donetsk on April 17. Masked pro-Russian protesters stand guard in front of the city hall in Mariupol Ukraine on April 17. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry reaches out to shake hands with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at the start of a bilateral meeting to discuss the ongoing situation in Ukraine. The meeting took place April 17 in Geneva Switzerland. A masked gunman stands guard near tanks in Slavyansk on Wednesday April 16. A Ukrainian helicopter flies over a column of Ukrainian Army combat vehicles on the way to Kramatorsk a city in eastern Ukraine on April 16. A masked pro-Russian gunman guards combat vehicles parked in downtown Slavyansk on April 16. A man talks with Ukrainian soldiers as they are blocked by people on their way to Kramatorsk. Ukrainian soldiers sit atop combat vehicles on their way to Kramatorsk. Ukrainian Gen. Vasily Krutov is surrounded by protesters after addressing the crowd outside an airfield in Kramatorsk on Tuesday April 15. Pro-Russian activists guard a barricade April 15 outside the regional police building that they seized in Slavyansk. Ukrainian troops receive munitions at a field on the outskirts of Izium Ukraine on April 15. Armed pro-Russian activists stand guard on top of a Ukrainian regional administration building in Slavyansk on Monday April 14. A pro-Russian activist carries a shield during the mass storming of a police station in Horlivka Ukraine on April 14. Russian supporters attend a rally in front of the security service building occupied by pro-Russian activists in Luhansk Ukraine on April 14. A man places a Russian flag over a police station after storming the building in Horlivka on April 14. A Ukrainian police officer receives medical care after being attacked at the police station in Horlivka on April 14. Pro-Russian supporters beat a pro-Ukrainian activist during a rally in Kharkiv Ukraine on Sunday April 13. Pro-Russian activists escort a man outside the secret service building in Luhansk on April 13. Pro-Russian protesters guard a barricade in Slavyansk on April 13 outside a regional police building seized by armed separatists the day before. Armed pro-Russian activists carrying riot shields occupy a police station in Slavyansk on April 12. A group of pro-Russian activists warm themselves by a fire Friday April 11 in front of a Ukrainian Security Service office in Luhansk. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk speaks April 11 during his meeting with regional leaders in Donetsk Ukraine. Yatsenyuk flew into Donetsk where pro-Russian separatists occupied the regional administration building and called for a referendum. Pro-Russian young men look over the fence of a military recruitment office in Donetsk on Thursday April 10. Armed pro-Russian protesters occupy the Security Service building in Luhansk on April 10. Members of the self-proclaimed government the "Donetsk Republic" vote April 10 during a meeting at the seized regional administration building in Donetsk. Ukrainian lawmakers from different parties scuffle during a Parliament session in Kiev on Tuesday April 8. Workers clean up on April 8 after pro-Russian separatists and police clashed overnight in Kharkiv. Pro-Russian protesters burn tires near a regional administration building in Kharkiv after police cleared the building on Monday April 7. A masked man stands on top of a barricade at the regional administration building in Donetsk on April 7. Protesters wave a Russian flag as they storm the regional administration building in Donetsk on Sunday April 6. Protesters seized state buildings in several east Ukrainian cities prompting accusations from Kiev that Moscow is trying to "dismember" the country. Pro-Russian protesters clash with police as they try to occupy a regional administration building in Donetsk on April 6. Pro-Russian activists hold a rally in front of a Ukrainian Security Service office in Luhansk on April 6. A young demonstrator with his mouth covered by a Russian flag attends a pro-Russia rally outside the regional government administration building in Donetsk on Saturday April 5. A Ukrainian soldier guards a road not far from Prokhody a village near the Russian border on April 5. Ukrainian and Western officials have voiced alarm about Russia's reported military buildup on Ukraine's eastern border. Ukrainian cadets at the Higher Naval School embrace a friend who has decided to stay in the school during a departure ceremony in Sevastopol Crimea on Friday April 4. Some 120 cadets who refused to take Russian citizenship left the school to return to Ukraine. Soviet military veterans take part in a flower-laying ceremony at the Soviet-era World War II memorial in Sevastopol on Thursday April 3. Ukrainian soldiers conduct a training session on the Desna military shooting range northeast of Kiev on Wednesday April 2. Russian soldiers prepare for diving training in front of a Tarantul-III class missile boat Tuesday April 1 in Sevastopol. People pass by barricades near the Dnipro Hotel in Kiev on April 1. People walk past a train loaded with Russian tanks Monday March 31 in the Gvardeyskoe railway station near Simferopol Crimea. A Russian solder sits in a tank at the Ostryakovo railway station not far from Simferopol on March 31. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev speaks about the economic development of Crimea during a meeting March 31 in Simferopol. Members of the Ukrainian National Guard take part in military exercises on a shooting range near Kiev on March 31. A woman cries Sunday March 30 during a gathering to honor those who were killed during protests in Kiev's Independence Square. A woman and child walk past a line of police officers during a rally in Kharkiv on March 30. Ukrainian soldiers take part in a training exercise at a military base in Donetsk on Saturday March 29. Demonstrators protest Friday March 28 in Kiev displaying police vehicles they seized during earlier clashes with authorities. Members of the Right Sector group block the Ukrainian parliament building in Kiev on Thursday March 27. Activists called for Interior Minister Arsen Avakov to step down after the recent killing of radical nationalist leader Oleksandr Muzychko who died during a police operation to detain him. Muzychko and the Right Sector are credited with playing a lead role in the protests that toppled Ukrainian President Victor Yanukovych. Ukrainian tanks are transported from their base in Perevalne Crimea on Wednesday March 26. After Russian troops seized most of Ukraine's bases in Crimea interim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov ordered the withdrawal of armed forces from the Black Sea peninsula citing Russian threats to the lives of military staff and their families. Ukrainian marines wave as they leave a base in Feodosia Crimea on Tuesday March 25. Russian sailors stand on the deck of the corvette ship Suzdalets in the bay of Sevastopol on March 25. Pro-Russian militia members remove a resident as Russian troops assault the Belbek air base outside Sevastopol on Saturday March 22. After its annexation of Crimea Russian forces have consolidated their control of the region. Soldiers in unmarked uniforms sit atop an armored personnel carrier at the gate of the Belbek air base on March 22. A Russian sailor holds the Russian Navy's St. Andrew's flag while standing on the bow of the surrendered Ukrainian submarine Zaporozhye on March 22 in Sevastopol. Russian President Vladimir Putin signs the final decree completing the annexation of Crimea on Friday March 21 as Upper House Speaker Valentina Matviyenko left and State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin watch. A Ukrainian serviceman leaves a Ukrainian military unit that Russian soldiers took control of in Perevalne on March 21. Ukrainian border guards run during training at a military camp in Alekseyevka Ukraine on March 21. Russian soldiers patrol the area surrounding a Ukrainian military unit in Perevalne on Thursday March 20. Pro-Russian protesters remove the gate to the Ukrainian navy headquarters as Russian troops stand guard in Sevastopol on Wednesday March 19. Pro-Russian forces walk inside the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 19. A member of pro-Russian forces takes down a Ukrainian flag at the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 19. Alexander Vitko chief of the Russian Black Sea Fleet leaves the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol after pro-Russian forces took it over on March 19. A Russian flag waves as workers install a new sign on a parliament building in Simferopol Crimea's capital on March 19. Russian military personnel surround a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 19. Nameplates on the front of the Crimean parliament building get removed Tuesday March 18 in Simferopol. From left Crimean Prime Minister Sergey Aksyonov; Vladimir Konstantinov speaker of the Crimean parliament; Russian President Vladimir Putin; and Alexei Chaly the new de facto mayor of Sevastopol join hands in Moscow on March 18 after signing a treaty to make Crimea part of Russia. Demonstrators hold a Crimean flag at Lenin Square in Simferopol on March 18. Ukrainian soldiers stand guard at a checkpoint near Strilkove Ukraine close to Crimea on Monday March 17. Former boxer and Ukrainian politician Vitali Klitschko addresses reporters in Kiev on March 17. Ukrainian troops stand guard in front of the Ukrainian Parliament building in Kiev on March 17. A Ukrainian man applies for the National Guard at a mobile recruitment center in Kiev on March 17. Civilians walk past riot police in Simferopol on March 17. A Ukrainian soldier stands on top of an armored vehicle at a military camp near the village of Michurino Ukraine on March 17. Policemen stand guard outside the regional state administration building in Donetsk during a rally by pro-Russia activists March 17. Armed soldiers stand guard outside a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 17. A man holds a Crimean flag as he stands in front of the Crimean parliament building in Simferopol on March 17. Crimeans holding Russian flags celebrate in front of the parliament building in Simferopol on Sunday March 16. A Ukrainian police officer tries to shield himself from a road block thrown by pro-Russia supporters in Kharkiv on March 16. Pro-Russia demonstrators storm the prosecutor general's office during a rally in Donetsk on March 16. A woman leaves a voting booth in Sevastopol on March 16. See the crisis in Ukraine before Crimea voted U.S. vows to defend fellow NATO members The United States isn't standing still militarily sending personnel to allied nations near Ukraine that have grown increasingly wary of Russia's military intentions. On Wednesday a company-size contingent of U.S. Army paratroopers arrived in Swidwin Poland for training exercises at Warsaw's request. They'll be there through at least the end of the year according to Stephen Mull the U.S. ambassador to Poland. The contingent is part of "a persistent rotational presence" that Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby has said will involve four Italy-based companies of paratroopers that will go to Poland Lithuania Latvia and Estonia over the next few months. "Poland has been there for the United States" Mull said Wednesday in front U.S. troops standing in formation next to Polish troops. "Today as the trans-Atlantic community confronts Russia's unacceptable aggression against Poland's neighbor Ukraine a sovereign and independent state we have a solemn obligation in the framework of NATO to reassure Poland of our security guarantee." The United States and its allies have accused Russia of fomenting unrest in Ukraine since massive demonstrations helped push out President Viktor Yanukovych who came under fire for moving Ukraine away from the European Union and closer to Russia. The allegations include Moscow's sending members of its armed forces into the country providing other support for pro-Russian militants or generally contributing to an atmosphere of distrust and instability. Whatever the cause or culprit a part of Ukraine -- Crimea -- has broken off and joined Russia. Some in the West fear that Russia will try to repeat that scenario elsewhere in Ukraine and perhaps in other countries in which ethnic Russians live or where Russia or the former Soviet Union historically has had significant influence. Some of those countries include the Baltic states and Poland which like the United States are part of NATO. The treaty that defines this alliances states that if any one NATO member "is the victim of an armed attack each and every other member of the alliance will consider this act of violence as an armed attack against all members and will take the actions it deems necessary to assist the Ally attacked." As a result the United States and its NATO allies are publicly stepping up involvement in places like Poland to dissuade Russian President Vladimir Putin from thinking that advancing into these countries is an option according to Kurt Volker a former U.S. ambassador to NATO. "I think that if we did not take the steps that we are taking now (Putin) would think that maybe it's an option" Volker who served as ambassador from 2008 and 2009 told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "... If we did not do that I think he would wonder: What would be the response of NATO if he did have some ... action there?" Counterclaims over politician's death Within Ukraine itself -- particularly the east and south -- government forces and pro-Russian militants continued their unsettling standoff. The situation seemed largely peaceful with hints of violence here and there. A Ukrainian army helicopter for instance was targeted Wednesday "by unknown gunmen" in Kramatorsk which is about 9 miles (15 kilometers) from Slavyansk. On Ukraine's Internal Affairs Ministry website Deputy Minister Sergiy Yaroviy said the helicopter suffered "minor damage" to its blades but was able to land safely with no injuries to its crew. The same couldn't be said about the discovery Saturday of two tortured bodies near Slavyansk. One of them was pro-Kiev politician Vladimir Rybak who Ukraine's Interior Ministry said Wednesday died as a result of injuries from torture and drowning. Stanislav Rechinsky an adviser to the interior minister blamed pro-Russian militants for having tortured and "kidnapped" him and others. "We have eyewitnesses who testified about hearing the so-called little green men bragging about the murders" he said Wednesday. "We have another eyewitness who saw these men alive in the torture cells and who was able to escape." The term "little green men" has become widely used for the unidentified armed men who have appeared in eastern Ukraine in recent days. Russia has denied they are Russian military forces in uniforms that don't bear insignia. Yet a pro-Russian leader in Slavyansk de facto Mayor Vyacheslav Ponomaryo vehemently denies such allegations instead blaming the deaths on far-right Ukrainian nationalist extremists. READ: Ukraine calls for renewal of anti-terror measures READ: Ukraine: Photos show undercover Russian troops READ: Amanpour blog: Media in Ukraine 'under siege' says OSCE CNN's Laura Smith-Spark Jim Sciutto Hada Messia Anna Maja Rappard and journalist Victoria Butenko contributed to this report. Vladimir Putin and the West are engaged in a slower match of wits on a chessboard stretching across most of eastern Ukraine. A new round of U.S. moves against Russia includes sanctions on two members of President Vladimir Putin's "inner circle." This week a Russian foundry minted a new coin to mark Russia's "reunification" with Ukraine's Crimea region. Newt Gingrich looks at how the Ukraine crisis requires careful thinking about correct U.S. policy. CNN's Diana Magnay looks at the narrative being spun by Russian state media about the conflict in Ukraine. Many residents in the pro-Russian town of Slavyansk blame the deaths of three men on Ukrainian nationalists. Ukraine's young government is running out of viable options for restoring its control of eastern regions and preserving the country's territorial integrity. As the Russian President laid into Ukraine from Moscow his foreign minister was signing a conciliatory deal in Geneva. So just what is Russia up to now? U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt reflects on the ongoing unrest in Ukraine. CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports on how Ukrainians are hoping for a deescalation in the tension with Russia. Political scientist Graham Allison says escalating tensions could result in U.S. involvement. Joerg Forbrig says the Geneva accord on Ukraine is a tactical victory for Russia. Images from Crimea Donetsk Kiev and elsewhere as the future of Ukraine lies in doubt. Have you witnessed the protests in Ukraine? Send us your images and video but please stay safe. Ukraine tense as Russia launches military drills activists die in clashes The 23-year-old with 24 kids: Genocide orphans form their own families Home Video World U.S. Africa Asia Europe Latin America Middle East Business World Sport Entertainment Tech Travel iReport Tools Widgets RSS Podcasts Blogs CNN Mobile My Profile E-mail Alerts CNN Shop Site map CNN Partner Hotels CNN en ESPAOL CNN Chile CNN Mxico   Trke Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System Inc. All Rights Reserved.Russia's Sergey Lavrov: U.S. 'running the show' in Kiev 'without any scruples' By Greg Botelho CNN April 24 2014 -- Updated 0236 GMT (1036 HKT) NEW: Official: Gunmen fire at Ukrainian army helicopter near Slavyansk Militants still hold buildings in east; Ukraine leader restarts "anti-terrorist" operation Russian minister: U.S. has "overwhelming influence" over the new Kiev government He says pro-Russian militants in Ukraine's east are "not puppets" of Moscow (CNN) -- The Ukraine crisis simmered Wednesday if not with actual fighting then with fighting words from the key outside players in the conflict: the United States and Russia whose foreign minister accused Washington of "running the show" in Kiev. In an interview with state-run RT Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov lamented how he felt U.S. officials were quick to blame his nation for everything awry in Ukraine and to insist Moscow can unilaterally solve it all. Lavrov said that while those in Ukraine's east and south who defiantly oppose the Kiev-based government are "not puppets" of the Kremlin such a characterization would describe the relationship between Ukraine's leadership in Kiev and the United States. "(Americans) have I think overwhelming influence" he said. "They act in a much more open way without any scruples compared to the Europeans ... You cannot avoid the impression that they are running the show very much very much." As proof Lavrov pointed to the timing of the Ukrainian government's relaunch of its security operation just after a two-day visit from U.S. Vice President Joe Biden. He claimed acting President Oleksandr Turchynov has "ordered the army to shoot at ... people if they are engaged in peaceful protests" yet hasn't disarmed extremists and what he called "the right sector." Some in Ukraine's east are occupying official buildings defying the Kiev government and openly siding with Russia"after several months of total neglect of their interests" Lavrov said. The minister faulted the new Kiev government for not doing more including taking the necessary "first step" to implement an international deal brokered in Geneva Switzerland. About a week after being reached that deal has done little to defuse the crisis. On the contrary both sides appear to be digging in. Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Vitaliy Yarema said Wednesday that "the active phase of the anti-terrorist operation continues" in the eastern cities of Kramatorsk Slavyansk Donetsk and Luhansk according to state-run news agency Ukrinform. Militants in those cities have shown no inclination to leave the government buildings they have seized or disarm as was mandated by the Geneva agreement. Meanwhile NATO estimates that Russia has massed 40000 troops near its border with Ukraine which has fueled speculation the conflict could only get bigger and more violent with Russia possibly taking over some if not all of Ukraine and possibly neighboring nations. Lavrov didn't say any military intervention was imminent but he didn't rule it out either. "If our interests our legitimate interests the interests of Russians have been attacked directly -- like they were in South Ossetia for example -- I do not see any other way but to respond in accordance with international law" he told RT referring to Russia's 2008 invasion of Georgia. "Russian citizens being attacked is an attack against the Russian Federation." Pro-Russia militants armed with baseball bats and iron bars hold flares as they attack people marching for national unity in Donetsk Ukraine on Monday April 28. Ukraine has seen a sharp rise in tensions since a new pro-European government took charge of the country in February. Moscow branded the new government illegitimate and annexed Ukraine's Crimea region last month citing threats to Crimea's Russian-speaking majority. And in eastern Ukraine pro-Russian separatists have captured towns and government buildings and are holding a team of European monitors hostage. Detained observers from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe arrive to take part in a news conference Sunday April 27 in the eastern Ukrainian city of Slavyansk. Vyacheslav Ponomarev the self-declared mayor of Slavyansk referred to the observers as "prisoners of war." Ukrainian troops stand guard behind a barricade made of sandbags at a checkpoint about 30 kilometers (20 miles) from Slavyansk on April 27. Relatives and friends of a man killed in a gunfight participate in his funeral ceremony in Slavyansk on Saturday April 26. U.S. troops arrive at an air force base near Siauliai Zuokniai Lithuania on April 26. The United States is conducting military exercises in Poland Latvia Estonia and Lithuania. The exercises are in part a response to the ongoing instability in Ukraine. Ukrainian government troops in armored vehicles travel on a country road outside the town of Svyitohirsk in eastern Ukraine on April 26. Pro-Russia armed militants inspect a truck near Slavyansk on Friday April 25. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has accused the West of plotting to control Ukraine and he said the pro-Russia insurgents in the southeast would lay down their arms only if the Ukrainian government clears out the Maidan protest camp in the capital Kiev. Pro-Russia militants keep records of their duty in Slavyansk on April 25. Ukrainian troops take position near burning tires at a pro-Russian checkpoint in Slavyansk on Thursday April 24. Ukrainian special forces take position at an abandoned roadblock in Slavyansk on April 24. Cossacks carry a coffin into a church in Slavyansk on Tuesday April 22 during a funeral for men killed in a gunfight at a checkpoint two days before. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden left talks with Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk during a meeting in Kiev on April 22. An armed pro-Russian man stands on a street in Slavyansk on Monday April 21. Demonstrators attend a pro-Russian rally outside the secret service building in Lugansk Ukraine on April 21. Cars are burned out after an attack at a roadblock in Slavyansk on Sunday April 20. A resident inspects burnt-out cars at a roadblock on April 20. A pro-Russian militant is seen at the roadblock near Slavyansk on April 20. Armed pro-Russian militants stand guard at a roadblock near Slavyansk on April 20. A masked man stands guard outside a regional administration building seized by pro-Russian separatists in Slavyansk on Friday April 18. People walk around barricades April 18 set up at the regional administration building that was seized earlier in Donetsk. Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks to the media after a nationally televised question-and-answer session in Moscow on Thursday April 17. Putin denied that Russian forces are involved in the unrest in eastern Ukraine though he did say for the first time that Russians were active in Crimea before the peninsula voted to join the country. Ukrainian riot police officers stand guard during a pro-Ukrainian demonstration in Donetsk on April 17. Masked pro-Russian protesters stand guard in front of the city hall in Mariupol Ukraine on April 17. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry reaches out to shake hands with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at the start of a bilateral meeting to discuss the ongoing situation in Ukraine. The meeting took place April 17 in Geneva Switzerland. A masked gunman stands guard near tanks in Slavyansk on Wednesday April 16. A Ukrainian helicopter flies over a column of Ukrainian Army combat vehicles on the way to Kramatorsk a city in eastern Ukraine on April 16. A masked pro-Russian gunman guards combat vehicles parked in downtown Slavyansk on April 16. A man talks with Ukrainian soldiers as they are blocked by people on their way to Kramatorsk. Ukrainian soldiers sit atop combat vehicles on their way to Kramatorsk. Ukrainian Gen. Vasily Krutov is surrounded by protesters after addressing the crowd outside an airfield in Kramatorsk on Tuesday April 15. Pro-Russian activists guard a barricade April 15 outside the regional police building that they seized in Slavyansk. Ukrainian troops receive munitions at a field on the outskirts of Izium Ukraine on April 15. Armed pro-Russian activists stand guard on top of a Ukrainian regional administration building in Slavyansk on Monday April 14. A pro-Russian activist carries a shield during the mass storming of a police station in Horlivka Ukraine on April 14. Russian supporters attend a rally in front of the security service building occupied by pro-Russian activists in Luhansk Ukraine on April 14. A man places a Russian flag over a police station after storming the building in Horlivka on April 14. A Ukrainian police officer receives medical care after being attacked at the police station in Horlivka on April 14. Pro-Russian supporters beat a pro-Ukrainian activist during a rally in Kharkiv Ukraine on Sunday April 13. Pro-Russian activists escort a man outside the secret service building in Luhansk on April 13. Pro-Russian protesters guard a barricade in Slavyansk on April 13 outside a regional police building seized by armed separatists the day before. Armed pro-Russian activists carrying riot shields occupy a police station in Slavyansk on April 12. A group of pro-Russian activists warm themselves by a fire Friday April 11 in front of a Ukrainian Security Service office in Luhansk. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk speaks April 11 during his meeting with regional leaders in Donetsk Ukraine. Yatsenyuk flew into Donetsk where pro-Russian separatists occupied the regional administration building and called for a referendum. Pro-Russian young men look over the fence of a military recruitment office in Donetsk on Thursday April 10. Armed pro-Russian protesters occupy the Security Service building in Luhansk on April 10. Members of the self-proclaimed government the "Donetsk Republic" vote April 10 during a meeting at the seized regional administration building in Donetsk. Ukrainian lawmakers from different parties scuffle during a Parliament session in Kiev on Tuesday April 8. Workers clean up on April 8 after pro-Russian separatists and police clashed overnight in Kharkiv. Pro-Russian protesters burn tires near a regional administration building in Kharkiv after police cleared the building on Monday April 7. A masked man stands on top of a barricade at the regional administration building in Donetsk on April 7. Protesters wave a Russian flag as they storm the regional administration building in Donetsk on Sunday April 6. Protesters seized state buildings in several east Ukrainian cities prompting accusations from Kiev that Moscow is trying to "dismember" the country. Pro-Russian protesters clash with police as they try to occupy a regional administration building in Donetsk on April 6. Pro-Russian activists hold a rally in front of a Ukrainian Security Service office in Luhansk on April 6. A young demonstrator with his mouth covered by a Russian flag attends a pro-Russia rally outside the regional government administration building in Donetsk on Saturday April 5. A Ukrainian soldier guards a road not far from Prokhody a village near the Russian border on April 5. Ukrainian and Western officials have voiced alarm about Russia's reported military buildup on Ukraine's eastern border. Ukrainian cadets at the Higher Naval School embrace a friend who has decided to stay in the school during a departure ceremony in Sevastopol Crimea on Friday April 4. Some 120 cadets who refused to take Russian citizenship left the school to return to Ukraine. Soviet military veterans take part in a flower-laying ceremony at the Soviet-era World War II memorial in Sevastopol on Thursday April 3. Ukrainian soldiers conduct a training session on the Desna military shooting range northeast of Kiev on Wednesday April 2. Russian soldiers prepare for diving training in front of a Tarantul-III class missile boat Tuesday April 1 in Sevastopol. People pass by barricades near the Dnipro Hotel in Kiev on April 1. People walk past a train loaded with Russian tanks Monday March 31 in the Gvardeyskoe railway station near Simferopol Crimea. A Russian solder sits in a tank at the Ostryakovo railway station not far from Simferopol on March 31. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev speaks about the economic development of Crimea during a meeting March 31 in Simferopol. Members of the Ukrainian National Guard take part in military exercises on a shooting range near Kiev on March 31. A woman cries Sunday March 30 during a gathering to honor those who were killed during protests in Kiev's Independence Square. A woman and child walk past a line of police officers during a rally in Kharkiv on March 30. Ukrainian soldiers take part in a training exercise at a military base in Donetsk on Saturday March 29. Demonstrators protest Friday March 28 in Kiev displaying police vehicles they seized during earlier clashes with authorities. Members of the Right Sector group block the Ukrainian parliament building in Kiev on Thursday March 27. Activists called for Interior Minister Arsen Avakov to step down after the recent killing of radical nationalist leader Oleksandr Muzychko who died during a police operation to detain him. Muzychko and the Right Sector are credited with playing a lead role in the protests that toppled Ukrainian President Victor Yanukovych. Ukrainian tanks are transported from their base in Perevalne Crimea on Wednesday March 26. After Russian troops seized most of Ukraine's bases in Crimea interim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov ordered the withdrawal of armed forces from the Black Sea peninsula citing Russian threats to the lives of military staff and their families. Ukrainian marines wave as they leave a base in Feodosia Crimea on Tuesday March 25. Russian sailors stand on the deck of the corvette ship Suzdalets in the bay of Sevastopol on March 25. Pro-Russian militia members remove a resident as Russian troops assault the Belbek air base outside Sevastopol on Saturday March 22. After its annexation of Crimea Russian forces have consolidated their control of the region. Soldiers in unmarked uniforms sit atop an armored personnel carrier at the gate of the Belbek air base on March 22. A Russian sailor holds the Russian Navy's St. Andrew's flag while standing on the bow of the surrendered Ukrainian submarine Zaporozhye on March 22 in Sevastopol. Russian President Vladimir Putin signs the final decree completing the annexation of Crimea on Friday March 21 as Upper House Speaker Valentina Matviyenko left and State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin watch. A Ukrainian serviceman leaves a Ukrainian military unit that Russian soldiers took control of in Perevalne on March 21. Ukrainian border guards run during training at a military camp in Alekseyevka Ukraine on March 21. Russian soldiers patrol the area surrounding a Ukrainian military unit in Perevalne on Thursday March 20. Pro-Russian protesters remove the gate to the Ukrainian navy headquarters as Russian troops stand guard in Sevastopol on Wednesday March 19. Pro-Russian forces walk inside the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 19. A member of pro-Russian forces takes down a Ukrainian flag at the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 19. Alexander Vitko chief of the Russian Black Sea Fleet leaves the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol after pro-Russian forces took it over on March 19. A Russian flag waves as workers install a new sign on a parliament building in Simferopol Crimea's capital on March 19. Russian military personnel surround a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 19. Nameplates on the front of the Crimean parliament building get removed Tuesday March 18 in Simferopol. From left Crimean Prime Minister Sergey Aksyonov; Vladimir Konstantinov speaker of the Crimean parliament; Russian President Vladimir Putin; and Alexei Chaly the new de facto mayor of Sevastopol join hands in Moscow on March 18 after signing a treaty to make Crimea part of Russia. Demonstrators hold a Crimean flag at Lenin Square in Simferopol on March 18. Ukrainian soldiers stand guard at a checkpoint near Strilkove Ukraine close to Crimea on Monday March 17. Former boxer and Ukrainian politician Vitali Klitschko addresses reporters in Kiev on March 17. Ukrainian troops stand guard in front of the Ukrainian Parliament building in Kiev on March 17. A Ukrainian man applies for the National Guard at a mobile recruitment center in Kiev on March 17. Civilians walk past riot police in Simferopol on March 17. A Ukrainian soldier stands on top of an armored vehicle at a military camp near the village of Michurino Ukraine on March 17. Policemen stand guard outside the regional state administration building in Donetsk during a rally by pro-Russia activists March 17. Armed soldiers stand guard outside a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 17. A man holds a Crimean flag as he stands in front of the Crimean parliament building in Simferopol on March 17. Crimeans holding Russian flags celebrate in front of the parliament building in Simferopol on Sunday March 16. A Ukrainian police officer tries to shield himself from a road block thrown by pro-Russia supporters in Kharkiv on March 16. Pro-Russia demonstrators storm the prosecutor general's office during a rally in Donetsk on March 16. A woman leaves a voting booth in Sevastopol on March 16. See the crisis in Ukraine before Crimea voted U.S. vows to defend fellow NATO members The United States isn't standing still militarily sending personnel to allied nations near Ukraine that have grown increasingly wary of Russia's military intentions. On Wednesday a company-size contingent of U.S. Army paratroopers arrived in Swidwin Poland for training exercises at Warsaw's request. They'll be there through at least the end of the year according to Stephen Mull the U.S. ambassador to Poland. The contingent is part of "a persistent rotational presence" that Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby has said will involve four Italy-based companies of paratroopers that will go to Poland Lithuania Latvia and Estonia over the next few months. "Poland has been there for the United States" Mull said Wednesday in front U.S. troops standing in formation next to Polish troops. "Today as the trans-Atlantic community confronts Russia's unacceptable aggression against Poland's neighbor Ukraine a sovereign and independent state we have a solemn obligation in the framework of NATO to reassure Poland of our security guarantee." The United States and its allies have accused Russia of fomenting unrest in Ukraine since massive demonstrations helped push out President Viktor Yanukovych who came under fire for moving Ukraine away from the European Union and closer to Russia. The allegations include Moscow's sending members of its armed forces into the country providing other support for pro-Russian militants or generally contributing to an atmosphere of distrust and instability. Whatever the cause or culprit a part of Ukraine -- Crimea -- has broken off and joined Russia. Some in the West fear that Russia will try to repeat that scenario elsewhere in Ukraine and perhaps in other countries in which ethnic Russians live or where Russia or the former Soviet Union historically has had significant influence. Some of those countries include the Baltic states and Poland which like the United States are part of NATO. The treaty that defines this alliances states that if any one NATO member "is the victim of an armed attack each and every other member of the alliance will consider this act of violence as an armed attack against all members and will take the actions it deems necessary to assist the Ally attacked." As a result the United States and its NATO allies are publicly stepping up involvement in places like Poland to dissuade Russian President Vladimir Putin from thinking that advancing into these countries is an option according to Kurt Volker a former U.S. ambassador to NATO. "I think that if we did not take the steps that we are taking now (Putin) would think that maybe it's an option" Volker who served as ambassador from 2008 and 2009 told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "... If we did not do that I think he would wonder: What would be the response of NATO if he did have some ... action there?" Counterclaims over politician's death Within Ukraine itself -- particularly the east and south -- government forces and pro-Russian militants continued their unsettling standoff. The situation seemed largely peaceful with hints of violence here and there. A Ukrainian army helicopter for instance was targeted Wednesday "by unknown gunmen" in Kramatorsk which is about 9 miles (15 kilometers) from Slavyansk. On Ukraine's Internal Affairs Ministry website Deputy Minister Sergiy Yaroviy said the helicopter suffered "minor damage" to its blades but was able to land safely with no injuries to its crew. The same couldn't be said about the discovery Saturday of two tortured bodies near Slavyansk. One of them was pro-Kiev politician Vladimir Rybak who Ukraine's Interior Ministry said Wednesday died as a result of injuries from torture and drowning. Stanislav Rechinsky an adviser to the interior minister blamed pro-Russian militants for having tortured and "kidnapped" him and others. "We have eyewitnesses who testified about hearing the so-called little green men bragging about the murders" he said Wednesday. "We have another eyewitness who saw these men alive in the torture cells and who was able to escape." The term "little green men" has become widely used for the unidentified armed men who have appeared in eastern Ukraine in recent days. Russia has denied they are Russian military forces in uniforms that don't bear insignia. Yet a pro-Russian leader in Slavyansk de facto Mayor Vyacheslav Ponomaryo vehemently denies such allegations instead blaming the deaths on far-right Ukrainian nationalist extremists. READ: Ukraine calls for renewal of anti-terror measures READ: Ukraine: Photos show undercover Russian troops READ: Amanpour blog: Media in Ukraine 'under siege' says OSCE CNN's Laura Smith-Spark Jim Sciutto Hada Messia Anna Maja Rappard and journalist Victoria Butenko contributed to this report. Vladimir Putin and the West are engaged in a slower match of wits on a chessboard stretching across most of eastern Ukraine. A new round of U.S. moves against Russia includes sanctions on two members of President Vladimir Putin's "inner circle." This week a Russian foundry minted a new coin to mark Russia's "reunification" with Ukraine's Crimea region. Newt Gingrich looks at how the Ukraine crisis requires careful thinking about correct U.S. policy. CNN's Diana Magnay looks at the narrative being spun by Russian state media about the conflict in Ukraine. Many residents in the pro-Russian town of Slavyansk blame the deaths of three men on Ukrainian nationalists. Ukraine's young government is running out of viable options for restoring its control of eastern regions and preserving the country's territorial integrity. As the Russian President laid into Ukraine from Moscow his foreign minister was signing a conciliatory deal in Geneva. So just what is Russia up to now? U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt reflects on the ongoing unrest in Ukraine. CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports on how Ukrainians are hoping for a deescalation in the tension with Russia. Political scientist Graham Allison says escalating tensions could result in U.S. involvement. Joerg Forbrig says the Geneva accord on Ukraine is a tactical victory for Russia. Images from Crimea Donetsk Kiev and elsewhere as the future of Ukraine lies in doubt. Have you witnessed the protests in Ukraine? Send us your images and video but please stay safe. Ukraine tense as Russia launches military drills activists die in clashes The 23-year-old with 24 kids: Genocide orphans form their own families Home Video World U.S. Africa Asia Europe Latin America Middle East Business World Sport Entertainment Tech Travel iReport Tools & Widgets RSS Podcasts Blogs CNN Mobile My Profile E-mail Alerts CNN Shop Site map CNN Partner Hotels CNN en ESPAOL CNN Chile CNN Mxico Trke Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System Inc. All Rights Reserved.