 16:51 RSS Add to blog Send to friend Share Add to blog You may place this material on your blog by copying the link. Publication code: Ukraine’s Naftogaz Halves Gazprom Gas Imports in 2013 15:20 24/04/2014 Ukrainian state-run gas company Naftogaz cut by half imports of natural gas from Russia’s Gazprom last year as compared to the year before Naftogaz told the Ukrainian Independent Information Agency. &gt;&gt; Other news of the day Preview: Ukraine’s Naftogaz Halves Gazprom Gas Imports in 2013 15:20 24/04/2014 Ukrainian state-run gas company Naftogaz cut by half imports of natural gas from Russia’s Gazprom last year as compared to the year before Naftogaz told the Ukrainian Independent Information Agency. &gt;&gt; Other news of the day Send by e-mail Your name E-mail To e-mail Text All fields are required! Code News is sent to e-mail Close Share Delicious Digg Seed Newsvine /world/20140424/189346441-comment.json Мужские новости Login Password Remember me! News » Crimean Military Dolphins to Serve in Russian Navy The combat dolphin program in the Crimean city of Sevastopol will be preserved and redirected towards the interests of the Russian Navy an employee at the facility where the dolphins are trained told RIA Novosti. Ukrainian Crisis Could Cause Russian Economy To Fall 1.8% in 2014 – World Bank The World Bank has designed two scenarios for the growth of the Russian economy in 2014 taking into account increased risks over the Crimean crisis. Putin’s Approval Rating Rises to 80% – Poll Russian President Vladimir Putin's approval rating has reached 80 percent with a majority of Russians saying the country is heading in the right direction an independent pollster said Wednesday. Tweets by @ria_novosti Top multimedia Image Galleries: Crimea in Pictures Video: Paralympic Flame Extinguished Amid Fireworks at Closing Ceremony Infographics: The Linguistic Diversity of the Planet Solving the Russia Problem TRENIN Dmitri After the end of the Cold War the West neglected the task of solving the “Russia problem” through integration. Trying to solve it now through economic warfare is not going to work. Making Putin back down and concede defeat in Ukraine is improbable. RIA Novosti Agency News Agency Today Photoservice Feedback Reference LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Products and services Terms of Use Privacy policy Contacts Partners Partnership 2014 