"‘Sooner or later Kiev’s army, Right Sector will attack civilians’

People in eastern Ukraine are not pro-Russian, they want a united and federalized Ukraine, a Finlandized Ukraine that is equally distant from the EU, NATO and Russia, and they are being confronted by guns, investigative journalist Pepe Escobar told RT.

RT:We're now seeing Kiev deploying the
  military against its own people. Do you think the situation
  requires that?

Pepe Escobar: No, of course not. Flashback, it’s
  very important. A few days ago John Brennan, head of the CIA,
  goes to Kiev, they launch an anti-terrorist operation. It’s a
  huge failure. A few days later US Vice-President Joe Biden goes
  to Kiev, they launch a second anti-terrorist operation and it’s a
  huge failure. So this is a third actually, but it is really
  serious because they’re choking Slavyansk, and in fact that is a
  key city where protests are really advanced. It is like the
  People’s republic of Donetsk, there is also the People’s republic
  of Slavyansk at the moment. It’s a huge provocation and in fact
  this is concomitant to NATO ratcheting up the pressure, saying
  that “We won’t go to support Russian aggression.” Russia
  is waiting to see what is going to happen and the Kremlin has
  already been very explicit: “If civilian Ukrainians are
  killed by the Ukrainian army which is a mix of army and Right
  Sector militia in fact, then the things are going to be spiraling
  out of control.” And obviously Russia doesn’t want that, but
  this is what NATO wants and what the Kiev government wants.


RT:We spoke to one of the Self-Defense
  Commanders in Slavyansk. He said it was not just the military,
  but also Right Sector members moving against Slavyansk. How
  involved do you think radicals are likely to be?

PE: Completely involved because now they are an
  actual militia. This reminds me a lot of Somalia, Afghanistan,
  Iraq and Syria for that matter. Now we are having Ukrainian
  neo-Nazi, neo-fascist militias fighting for a bunch of regime
  changers in Kiev and using what is left of the Ukrainian army
  which is in a pitiful state to attack and encircle a city. Sooner
  or later they will be attacking civilians. This is completely
  crazy. Where is the UN in all this? Nowhere to be seen! Nobody is
  doing anything, and Putin and Merkel talked yesterday and Putin
  told Merkel explicitly: “Look, if they don’t retreat troops
  back to Kiev and if they start attacking civilians, then it is a
  completely different ball game”. Nobody wants this as I said
  before. NATO needs a reason because the propaganda for the past
  three weeks has been relentless: Demonization of Russia,
  demonization of Vladimir Putin and demonization of the
  pro-Russian militants in the eastern Ukraine. They are not
  pro-Russian, they want a united Ukraine, a federalized Ukraine, a
  Finlandized Ukraine that is not allied with the EU and NATO or
  with Russia, it’s equidistant. And they want more autonomy in the
  eastern and southern provinces. This is what those
  “militants” want in fact. And now they are being
  confronted by guns.


RT:We've got heavy weaponry on both sides,
  there are casualties already. How much uglier can we expect this
  to get?

PE: We should always remember Mao Zedong “A
  spark is enough to light a prairie fire.” This could be the
  spark that lights the prairie fire of the civil war in Ukraine
  where we are going to have face to face, in the worst possible
  scenario, NATO on one side and the Russian troops on the other.
  Nobody can possibly want something like this, except of course
  the people who are doing the best they can to get this outcome:
  the regime changers in Kiev.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
