"US failing to push economic sanctions against Russia through EU allies

The new round of sanctions against Russia, which the EU and the US plan to unveil Monday, will not target the Russian economy. Washington said it won’t use economic sanctions without the EU also signing up to them.


  G7 members agreed Friday to roll out a third round of
  anti-Russian sanctions over the Ukrainian crisis. But those would
  be an extension of the previous two rounds of sanctions, which
  targeted 33 individuals in Russia and Ukraine and a Russian bank,
  which the Western government deemed responsible for the crisis in
  Ukraine or close enough to President Vladimir Putin to have
  leverage on him.


What we will hear about in the coming days, what we will
  agree ... is an expansion of existing sanctions, measures against
  individuals or entities in Russia, UK Foreign Secretary
  William Hague told Sky News on Sunday.



  The new round will slap travel bans and asset freezes on 15 more
  people, according to numerous insider reports. But it’s unlikely
  that they would have any greater effect on Russian policies than
  the sanctions already in effect. If anything, so far sanctions
  against the officials have only resulted in mocking calls from
  Russian MPs, politicians and ordinary citizens to add their names
  on the blacklists.



  Imposing sanctions on some sectors of the Russian economy, which
  could actually hurt the country, remains an elusive goal for
  Washington. At the same time America, whose economic ties with
  Russia are mediocre at best compared to Europe’s, is unwilling to
  act alone. Otherwise, it would appear that there is conflict
  between Russia and the US, not Russia and the world, a narrative
  that Washington is struggling to promote.


We're going to be in a stronger position to deter Mr. Putin
  when he sees that the world is unified and the United States and
  Europe is unified rather than this is just a US-Russian
  conflict, US President Barack Obama told reporters on
  Sunday.



  But Europe has much to lose from imposing economic sanctions on
  Russia, and Obama said he sees how US-only sanctions won’t work.


“If we, for example, say that we are not going to allow
  certain arms sales to Russia, but every European defense
  contractor backfills what we do, then it’s not very
  effective,” he said.



  With Russia being a major supplier of raw materials and buyer of
  European goods, the EU governments are far from being eager to
  shoot themselves in the foot with economic sanctions.


“At the moment there is no consensus among the EU members on
  which economic measures against Russia would be acceptable, or
  even if they are needed at all,” a European diplomatic
  source told Itar-Tass.



  The diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said only
  an open military invasion of Ukraine or irrefutable proof of
  Russian clandestine military presence in Ukraine would tip EU’s
  stance toward economic sanctions. So far every piece of evidence
  that Kiev and Washington made public of alleged involvement of
  Russian agents in Ukraine was either inconclusive or simply
  false.



  The US and the EU are accusing Russia of stirring up
  anti-government protest in eastern Ukraine and failing to fulfill
  its obligations under last week’s Geneva statement. They want
  Moscow to publicly denounce the protesters holding governmental
  buildings in Ukraine in defiance of a military crackdown launched
  by Kiev.



  Russia insists that it is the post-coup Ukrainian government,
  which is not making necessary steps to deescalate the violence.
  Moscow says Kiev must disarm radical nationalist groups,
  particularly the Right Sector, which toppled the previous
  Ukrainian government, and start negotiations with the protesters
  instead of threatening them with tanks and multiple rocket
  launchers.



  If Kiev choses to escalate the crackdown on the protesters by
  using heavy arms against them Russia says it reserves the right
  to use its own military to stop bloodshed."
