"Ron Paul: ‘US involvement into affairs of other states leads only to trouble’

Involvement in other states doesn’t benefit the US or help national security, and in the case of Ukraine it doesn’t assist the Ukrainian people, so it would be best if the US stays out, former US congressman Ron Paul said in RT’s Boom Bust show.


  The US has neither the authority, nor the right to determine what
  is best for other people, Ron Paul told Boom Bust host, Erin Ade. Once American
  people were supposed to know what the government was doing, but
  now all the efforts in Washington seem to be to make government
  very secretive, and the fact is that the US is not improving its
  influence in the word, but causing more harm to the American
  people, Paul said.


RT:What concerns do you have about American
  involvement in Ukraine?

Ron Paul: There are several. First, I don’t like
  our government getting involved into affairs of other people and
  leading only to trouble. I would have followed the admonition of
  the early founders of our country that we should not be involved
  into the entangling alliances throughout the world, nor into
  internal affairs of other nations. Whether it is the Middle East,
  Northern Africa or Ukraine, I apply that principle. So I do not
  believe it is to our benefit, I do not think it helps our
  national security, I think it hurts our national security. I do
  not think it helps in this particular instance the Ukrainian
  people. I think it would be best for everybody for us to just
  stay out. Besides, we do not have the money. We have to go borrow
  the money if we decide. And we are already spending money on this
  effort in Ukraine and I do not think we should be doing it.


RT:I take it you believe the money spent by
  the US abroad would be better used to shore up our finances here.
  In your view what role does the US have in terms of projection of
  power or as a global supercop.

RP: It’s mainly to develop friendly relations
  with as many people who are open to it. I was delighted with the
  collapse of the Soviet system and I was delighted with our
  efforts to end it. A lot of trade is going on not only with
  former communist nation China, but also with Russia. We have
  invested 500 billion dollars in Russia and they have invested 400
  billion dollars outside. So there is a lot of trade going on.



  So it sort of defies this idea that a few people are stirring up
  enough trouble where they want to ruin all that. So my effort in
  the world is to promote trade and promote friendship, promote
  travel, at the same time not be involved in trying to determine
  what is best for the other people. I do not want to do that in
  individual lives and I don’t want to do that for other
  governments and other peoples. In spite of many problems out
  there, it is just impossible for us to do this and we do not have
  the authority and we are not going to be welcomed, and we do not
  have a reason to do that. If things should be done to help people
  in trouble overseas, it should be done from our viewpoint of
  liberty, it should be done voluntarily and American people have
  been very generous in helping people when they are in trouble,
  but I want our government, our people to stay out of affairs
  especially when they come to violence and militarism.


RT:Some people believe that US political
  and military involvement in places like Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya
  and Ukraine is a bid to maintain US global wealth by maintaining
  US global domination. What is your view on the subject?

RP: I think there is a lot to that. There are
  interested countries, whether it is Russia or China, when they
  invest overseas they go maybe the same, and America goes or used
  to be there. We are much more likely to have global presence by
  trading and investments, and having friendly relations. But now
  we have fallen into the trap of saying “Well, that was not the
  whole reason we went to the Middle East. Oil was the issue, there
  were other issues as well.” But China and other countries that
  are investing overseas, they are investing in oil and different
  things, and right now we are giving Russia a tremendous incentive
  to go and do more deals with China, India and other countries
  where, if the market was working, we might be able to better
  provide these trade agreements than when we make trouble and
  people resist what we do. That is why I do not think it is in our
  best interest.


RT:Inside the US we have a policy whereby
  the NSA collects data on US citizens en masse allegedly to mine
  data in order to deter future terrorist attacks. Are you
  concerned about this data collection and its impact on US
  citizens and businesses?

RP: There are some whom I don’t understand in
  our Congress, who say “Oh no, we must do it and this is the way
  we have safety.” This is more a principle of an authoritarian
  dictatorship. I am a strong advocate of privacy, I complain so
  much because our own government is very secretive in a free
  society. Once we were supposed to know what the government was
  doing but now all the efforts in Washington seem to be to make
  government very secretive and we are not allowed to know what is
  going on. If somebody tells us the truth they are charged with
  treason. Instead of looking to our Constitution, the 4th
  amendment protecting our privacy, actually the NSA are doing
  exactly the opposite. So our government is not acting in the way
  it was intended to, and some of us are concerned about it. I am
  very optimistic with a lot of young people, and there are still a
  lot of Americans who have been complacent, but they do not think,
  “Oh, I want to give up my freedom because government is going to
  take care of me.” Quite frankly, right now they are starting to
  realize that all governments, the more authoritarian they are the
  more inept they are. And that’s why you see collapses of so many
  empires around the world. I think right now we are not improving
  our influence in the word but actually we are causing more harm
  to the American people.


RT:The US has about 5 percent of the global
  population, but 35 percent of the global wealth. And this
  discrepancy seems to be contracting. What should the US do about
  that contraction?

RP: If you mean the 35 percent is going down, I
  wouldn’t measure the statistics, I would measure the measurement
  of freedom. A free society that is productive and has property
  rights and trade is going to have more wealth because that’s what
  a free country does. So if there is a discrepancy between the US
  and a country in Africa which has no property rights and no
  freedom and no industrialization, what they need is the concept
  of liberty, free markets and sound money, what the property
  rights mean and contract rights mean. So you do not want to say,
  “Well, if there is an imbalance in wealth we have to redistribute
  wealth” – that is not the answer to the problem. The answer to
  the problem is how the wealth gets created. We used to know how
  to do this. Today we think the wealth is created by the Federal
  Reserve. We are not producing wealth. And foolishly, foreign
  countries are still taking our dollars. As long as foreigners
  take our dollars we are going to be doing this, but this is going
  to diminish our wealth. Statistically, the freer a country is the
  more wealth it is going to have and they should never be held
  down for that. They should not be criticized for having wealth if
  they have earned that wealth."
