"The right storms Europe vote: Your quick guide to the anti-EU hardline

The EU parliamentary elections have seen a marked shift towards both right-wing and Euroskeptic political parties. From the National Front to UKIP, RT has drawn up a list of the need-to-know political parties coming to prominence in the EU.


  The National Front



  The National Front far-right party in France gleaned 25 percent
  of the votes in the latest EU elections, according to early
  results. It’s well ahead of the opposition center-Right UMP
  party, which received 20.6 per cent – a 9 percent drop since the
  last elections.


“Our people demands one type of politics: they want politics
  by the French, for the French, with the French. They don’t want
  to be led anymore from outside, to submit to laws.”


  The victory was in fact a triple win: Marine Le Pen came top with
  32.6 percent in her constituency in the north-west of France,
  Jean-Marie le Pen (Marine’s father, the party’s founder) was in
  the first position with 28.9 percent in the south-east and Louis
  Aliot, Le Pen’s partner, scored 23.7 percent – in pole position -
  in the south-west.


“This result is more than a new warning: it’s a shock, an
  earthquake,” he said, pledging to push on with reforms
  “faster - there isn’t a moment to lose” – French
  Socialist Prime Minister Valls



  The party is known to deny the Holocaust and the impact the Nazi
  invasion during WWII had on the country.



  In 2005, Jean-Marie Le Pen described the Nazi occupation as
  not particularly inhumane, even if there were a few
  blunders, inevitable in a country of [220,000 square miles]
  and in 1987 referred to the Nazi gas chambers as a point of
  detail of the history of the Second World War.”


  UKIP



  The UK Independence Party (UKIP) garnered 27.5 percent of the
  vote in the latest EU elections, beating off competition from the
  Lib Dems, Conservatives and Labour.



  UKIP has gone from strength to strength since the onset of the
  European crisis, championing anti-EU and anti-immigration
  policies.



  Nigel Farage heads the party and recently came under fire for
  alleging that immigrants from Romania were responsible for a
  crime wave in London.



  Their controversial statements include MEP Godfrey Bloom’s
  speech, in which he referred to countries in receipt of UK
  government aid as “bongo bongo land.”


  Farage was fined 3,000 euro in 2010 for a tirade against then
  European Council Herman Van Rompuy.



  He called Belgium a “non-country” and likened Van Rompuy
  to a “low-grade bank clerk” with the charisma of a
  “damp rag.”


  Their political peers have described them as racist, xenophobic
  and homophobic, with Prime Minister David Cameron famously
  declaring them “a bunch of fruitcakes, loonies and closet
  racists.”


  Syriza



  Greece’s radical, leftist Syriza party snatched victory from the
  conservative New Democracy party headed by Prime Minister Antonis
  Samaras in the EU elections.



  Party leader Alexis Tsipras hailed the victory, saying it was
  evidence the current government has no right to continue with its
  austerity measures.



  He has called for an immediate end to Greece’s
  “barbarous” bailout deal.



  Samaras said that while the party’s victory in the elections sent
  a strong message to the government, voters had rejected “the
  overthrow that Syriza wanted.” The party was formed in 2004
  as a coalition of left-wing and radical left organizations.



  Golden Dawn



  Greek far-right party Golden Dawn won three seats in the European
  Parliament in the elections.



  Despite the fact that most of the party’s 18 lawmakers are under
  criminal investigations, the Greek Supreme Court ruled to allow
  the Golden Dawn to take part in the EU elections.



  Leader of the Golden Dawn Nikolaos Mihaloliakos is currently in
  jail after he was arrested last year for participating in a
  “criminal organization.”



  The party has a strong anti-immigration policy and champions
  slogans such as “Clean up the stench,” and “Greece
  for the Greeks.”


  Golden Dawn began as a fringe party in 1985 and rose to
  popularity during the crisis in Greece, winning 18 seats in the
  Hellenic Parliament in 2012.



  Alternative for Germany Party



  Branded as “unelectable mavericks” by the German
  Political elite, the Alternative f?r Deutschland (AFD) won 7
  percent of the vote in the EU elections and will enter the
  28-nation bloc’s parliament.



  Under the banner of Have Courage to Be Germany to
  party demands no less than Germany’s return to the Deutschmark
  and the repatriation of powers from Brussels.



  The organization is headed by 51-year-old Bernd Lucke, who
  infamously referred to poor immigrants as “social
  dregs.”


  Lucke has denied allegations of flirting with far-right populists
  in the run up to the European elections.



  The Sweden Democrats



  Nationalist party the Sweden Democrats took their first ever
  European Parliamentary seats in the elections.



  In 1999 the organization rejected links to Nazism, but still
  retains a strong anti-immigration and anti-EU polices.



  Party leader Jimmie Akesson said his organization’s critical
  stance on the EU had attracted voted from the Swedish public.



  New Right Party



  Leader of the Polish New Right Party Janusz Korwin-Mikke has won
  a seat in the European Parliament.



  The eccentric politician harbors many controversial views and has
  called for the restoration of the Polish monarchy. He also
  suggested the European Commission building should be turned into
  a brothel."
