"Pentagon says it cannot replace imported Russian rocket engines

The Pentagon cannot find a replacement for the Russian rocket engines it buys anytime soon, a senior official has revealed. The import of the engines has for now been banned via a court order lobbied by SpaceX and based on sanctions against Russia.


  Washington may soon find it problematic to continue launching its
  military satellites, as a long-time supply connection between
  Russian and US defense companies has been halted and is being
  reviewed – all because of sanctions against Moscow in connection
  with the Ukrainian crisis.



  Earlier ordered by US Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, the review
  of US Air Force dependence on the Russian-made RD-180 engine,
  used in American Atlas V rockets, has not yielded any solutions.



  “We don’t have a great solution. We haven’t made any
  decisions yet,” Frank Kendall, the US undersecretary of
  defense for acquisition, was quoted as saying by Bloomberg in a
  Thursday article. The defense official spoke to the outlet after
  testifying before a Senate committee on the matter on Wednesday.



  United Launch Alliance LLC, a partnership of Lockheed Martin
  Corp. (LMT) and Boeing Co. (BA), has been purchasing RD-180
  rocket engines from joint Russian-American enterprise RD-Amross
  LLC since 1997. The engines in question have been produced at a
  plant of NPO Energomash near Moscow, and over 40 of them were
  delivered between 1997-2007 alone.



  The US has used RD-180 engines to power its Atlas III and Atlas V
  rockets, which mostly deliver commercial or military
  communications satellites, as well as reconnaissance and
  navigation satellites.



  SpaceX fighting Russia on US space market?



  So far, the replacement options outlined by the Air Force for
  Hagel have reportedly included building RD-180s in the US under
  an existing license from the Russian maker, or using different
  Delta-class rockets altogether. Each of the options has its
  drawbacks, such as the need to harness the time and know-how for
  setting up engine production in the US, or the limited production
  capability for another class of rockets, according to Kendall.



  However, even as the Pentagon has yet to come up with a definite
  decision on the issue, the banning of the Russian engine import
  is being pushed through by other US players.



  US billionaire Elon Musk’s SpaceX corporation on Wednesday won a
  court order temporarily blocking the Air Force from buying the
  Russian rocket engines on the grounds of a “potential
  violation” of US-imposed sanctions. The corporation says
  that by purchasing the engines, the Air Force is funneling money
  to Russia’s military industrial complex, which could be
  sponsoring some sanctioned Russian personas.



  That was only part of the April 28 complaint filed by SpaceX,
  which has been desperately trying to break into the military
  launch market. Musk has particularly been aiming to end the
  Boeing/Lockheed-Martin monopoly on launching military satellites
  in the US.



  Speaking at a congressional hearing in March, Musk alleged that
  such launches may be at risk due to the dependence on the Russian
  engine.



  There has not, however, been any indication that Russia could
  stop the production of engines already agreed upon under the
  latest contract, nor did the US freeze their delivery. The
  Wednesday court decision did not cover existing contracts or
  payments either.



  Despite Washington’s recently ratcheted-up rhetoric on sanctions
  against Russia, Bloomberg learned that five more RD-180 engines
  are still due to be delivered this year. The further deliveries
  could come under question at least temporarily, as, according to
  Pentagon spokeswoman Maureen Schumann, the United Launch Alliance
  has already stockpiled a two-year supply of the engines."
