"‘I hope Europe won't do anything stupid’: Putin aide on sanctions

For the time being, Russia does not plan to retaliate against the West's soft sanctions, Andrey Belousov, a senior economic aide to President Vladimir Putin told the Austrian press.

I can say openly that, as of today, we are not preparing
  countermeasures, Andrey Belousov, Putin’s chief advisor to
  the EU, told the newspaper Die Press in an interview published on Tuesday.



  Following the US initiative, the EU has issued two rounds of
  sanctions against Russia over Ukraine, first targeting
  politicians, and then banks and businesses. Belousov warned he
  hoped there would be no more.


“I hope Europe does not act foolishly with more
  sanctions,” Belousov said, adding that if the West does make
  any more moves to restrict Russia’s foreign trade, Russia may
  appeal to the World Trade Organization.



  So far, effects from the so-called sanctions have only been
  punitive, even though many Western governments tried to pressure
  companies and banks to abandon projects in Russia or cut off
  financing.


We saw nervousness, not so much at Russian companies, but
  much more at foreign companies that are working in Russia,”
  Putin’s former chief economic adviser said. He added foreign
  companies operating in or doing business with Russia will not be
  punished over Western-ed sanctions and that Russia hasn't felt
  any adverse reactions thus far.



  He said he was glad his EU counterpart and EU Trade Commissioner
  Karl de Gucht is soon leaving his post, as Moscow is not getting
  along very well with Brussels at present, but instead is seeking
  more bilateral cooperation with states within Europe.



  The other effects of the sanctions actually play in Moscow’s
  favor. The hostile actions of the West have had a unifying effect
  on the Russian population, which has rallied around the
  President, and lessened the gap between liberal and non-liberal
  factions.



  Pivot and prosper



  Another effect of sanctions is Russia’s pivot away from Europe
  towards more active and expanding markets in China and Asia.



  However, Russia says it is open to continue business on both
  eastern and western borders.


I did not say this [pivot to Asia, Ed.] will happen at the
  detriment of cooperation with the West, the aide said.


“Our relations with individual EU countries are developing
  much better than with Brussels,” Belousov said in the
  interview.



  Investing in Asian markets will provide the jump-start Russia’s
  economy needs, which has been slowing in the past year and may
  not achieve any growth at all this year, according to Economic
  Minister Aleksey Ulyukaev. More recently, Russia’s Central Bank
  estimated that growth in 2014 would be 0.5 percent.



  After growing at record rates of between 6-8 percent in the early
  2000s, the economy was hit hard by the financial crisis in
  2008-2009, as demand from Europe, Russia’s biggest trade partner,
  has dropped. In 2013, growth slowed to 1.3 percent.



  Belousov gave two reasons for Russia’s scuppered growth. The
  first is cyclical - after a booming investment period in
  2010-2011, Russia is now experiencing an investment
  break”. The second reason is high lending rates, which the
  Central Bank and Economic Ministry has pledged to combat, but
  haven’t yet delivered on."
