"?Back to burning: Maidan activists set tires on fire to protest eviction (VIDEO)

Nauseous black smoke from burning tires is back in Central Kiev. A group of Maidan activists set them on fire in a gesture of protest against an order from Kiev’s elected Mayor Vladimir Klitshchko’s to remove the barricades.


  The protest is more a symbolic reminder of the scale that
  anti-government protest reached four months ago. Some 30 angry
  activists ignited several tires with a Molotov cocktail and
  wouldn’t allow a fire crew to out the flames out.



  They threatened to start “a third Maidan” (following the 2004
  protest during the “orange revolution” and the second one in
  November 2013-February 2014), unless the order to dismantle the
  barricades in the Ukrainian capital is rescinded.



    Â Êèåâå ñôîğìèğîâàëàñü äîáğàÿ òğàäèöèÿ - æå÷ü ïîêğûøêè â Äåíü
    ãîğîäà . 
    #óêğàèíà
    #ìàéäàí
    #åâğîìàéäàípic.twitter.com/nGipygwAOx
    — Ñìèğíîôô (@smirnof3gs) May
    31, 2014


  Klitshchko, one of the three prime political leaders of the
  second Maidan, was elected the new mayor of Kiev on Sunday, on
  the same day that Ukrainians voted for their new president. One
  of his first public statements after securing office was a call
  to Maidan activists still residing in the city center to leave.


“The key goal of the Maidan – ousting the dictator – has been
  reached, so the barricades should be dismantled,” he said.



  Similar statements came from the elected president, Petro
  Poroshenko.


“No Maidans would affect the president, no matter how much
  anyone would want it. Otherwise Maidan would no longer be the
  will of the people and would turn into a common spin technique. I
  know how to deal with such techniques,” he said.



    ÌÀÉÄÀÍ. ÂÅĞÑÈß 3.0 pic.twitter.com/zKOrKz4dgY
    — Íåôğèòîâûé çàÿö (@zavvp) May 31,
    2014


  The calls however were not heeded at Maidan, where some activists
  criticized Klitshchko for not taking into account their opinion
  on whether Maidan should be dismantled or not.



  But as the calls to dismantle barricades were met with renewed
  violence, Vitaly Klitschko was quick to change his rhetoric. The
  then stated that Maidan should itself determine its future.


“I fought at Maidan since the first day. We did not [allow
  the] Maidan eviction then and we won’t today either, despite
  provocations. We understand that the country and the capital
  should return to peaceful life and start the reforms people
  demand,” Klitschko said, as quoted by his party's press
  service."
