"State Guard, police hold night drill in Kiev (VIDEO)

Ukraine’s State Guard and police units held a civil protection drill in Kiev on Wednesday night, the mayor of the Ukrainian capital said.


  Security forces inspected government buildings and trained on
  APCs during the civil protection drill, which took place
  overnight in the Ukrainian capital. Military equipment was
  transported via the shortest routes from one location to another.



  Security forces also checked Kiev’s bomb shelters and the
  presence of drinking water sources, said Kiev’s mayor, Vladimir
  Bondarenko.



  A short statement was published on Kiev City Hall’s
  website early on Wednesday, warning “residents and guests of
  the capital” of a special tactical drill to “be held in
  Kiev on the night of April 30 to May 1.”


  The announcement attracted huge attention from both the media and
  Kiev residents, as it promised “columns of combat
  vehicles” moving through the city during the exercise.
  
  However, the Ukrainian Defense Ministry hurried to refute the
  claims by the mayor’s office, stating that the country's armed
  forces were not planning to hold any military drills in the
  capital.
  
  “The announcement of a special tactical exercise, which was
  posted today – April 30 – on the official website of the Kiev
  city administration has nothing to do with the activities of the
  Defense Ministry and the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed
  Forces,” a statement on the Defense Ministry’s website
  said.
  
  “The personnel and military vehicles of the city’s garrison
  remain at the place of their permanent location. Their deployment
  in the city’s center is not expected,” the statement added.
  
  Later on Wednesday, Kiev's Mayor Vladimir Bondareko appeared on
  Ukrainian television to clarify the situation.
  
  He stated that only troops from the State Guard and Interior
  Ministry – not the army – would be taking part in the night
  drill.
  Today we are working with units...which must protect the
  population in case of certain events. So, today we’ll try to
  train the movement of these units. They will arrive in of
  Pechersk district (a historical neighborhood in central Kiev),
  where the government institutions are situated, and then return
  to their bases,” Bondareko said.
  
  The mayor explained that the exercises are vital due to the
  events taking place in southeastern Ukraine. Protests against the
  coup-imposed Ukrainian government are on the rise in the region,
  with anti-Kiev activists seizing administrative buildings and
  demanding a referendum on federalization.
  
  We must be ready for everything, and Kiev’s city
  administration is doing all it can that if, God forbid, something
  happens, we’ll be able to hide in shelters and get water; so that
  we knew where to go for medical aid,” he stressed.



  Earlier Ukraine’s coup-appointed President Aleksandr Turchinov
  announced that the army is now in a state of high alert due to
  the real threat of a Russian military invasion.



  At the same time he admitted that Kiev cannot control the
  situation in the east of Ukraine, where anti-government
  protesters are continuing to take over government buildings.



  The clashes on Tuesday night happened between an
  ultra-nationalist Social-National Assembly, a faction of the
  Right Sector militant group and members of the Maidan
  self-defense militia, as the nationalists were holding a torch
  rally through central Kiev.



  Many Ukrainian nationalists are appalled by the Ukrainian
  government’s failure to crackdown on the eastern Ukrainian
  protest. Some even call for another change at the top.



  Some Ukrainian officials branded the torch rally as a provocation
  inspired by Russia, although no explanation was given as to how
  Russia could have any influence on that group.



  Ukraine’s central authorities previously tried to use the
  military against the protesters in the east, but this proved to
  be inefficient. The morale of the troops is low, and there were
  cases of some soldiers defecting to the protesters instead of
  fighting against them."
