"‘It’s up to US to get on the phone to Kiev and tell them to stop this operation’

The US and the EU are calling for peace in Ukraine, but they were also the primary instigators of the unrest in the first place; now they must use their influence on the Kiev government to stop the violence, Neil Clark, writer and journalist, tells RT.

RT:Is Odessa going to be a turning point?
  Do you think this standoff between the interim Ukrainian
  authorities and the pro-Russia protesters is going to be a
  turning point or is there worse to come?

Neil Clark: I think worse could be to come, and
  what happens in the next few days is going to be absolutely
  critical here. And really what happens in the next few days is
  down to what happens in the US, because there’s no doubt in my
  mind that the US is actually in charge of the Kiev government’s
  assaults and the so-called anti-terrorist program that they took
  part in, which happened after the visit by Joe Biden to Kiev just
  after Easter. So this sort of anti-terrorist opposition that the
  Kiev junta calls it has been launched with the approval of the
  US. So what happens next is really down to the conversation,
  which is happening right at this moment, between John Kerry and
  the leading officials in the US and the junta in Kiev.


RT:What do you make of the West’s response
  so-far to what happened in Odessa, the public response anyway. I
  don’t know what’s going on behind closed doors, but what’s being
  said publicly?

NC: Well, there’s been a deafening silence
  hasn’t there. Just imagine if this had taken place in Venezuela.
  Just imagine if the Venezuelan government had got armed militias
  to go to areas where anti-government protesters occupied
  buildings and they fire bombed them and over forty people were
  killed in a fire. Just imagine the reaction from John Kerry, from
  William Hague, from Francoise Hollande, had the Venezuelan
  government done this. But the Ukrainian Junta does this and
  there’s absolute silence, which shows you the incredible double
  standard doesn’t it. If the Venezuelans had been responsible, we
  would have calls for airstrikes, for humanitarian intervention to
  protect the civilians. They would be saying Maduro is killing his
  own people. So the double standards are absolutely off the scale.


RT:Talking of which, focusing back on the
  east again, the Kiev authorities really ramped up the opposition
  this week. With the support from the West who at the same time
  are calling for peace.

NC: I mean if the West genuinely wanted peace,
  they would be reining in the Kiev junta, telling them to halt
  their so-called anti-terrorist operation in the East, calling
  them to have dialogue, calling them to have a more conciliatory
  tone, calling them for constitutional changes, which were agreed
  at the Geneva accords. So I think on the one hand the West is
  trying to portray itself as a peace maker in this. On the other
  hand the West is behind all that’s going on, I’m afraid. John
  Kerry and the EU and the US could stop all this tomorrow by
  simply getting on the phone to the Kiev junta and telling them
  this is not on. But of course they’re not doing that, they’re
  doing the opposite. This is an attempt to destroy democracy in
  the Ukraine. It started with the coup in February and now we’re
  seeing the most appalling measure of violence taken against
  protesters in the East of Ukraine.


RT:What do you think is going to happen
  between now and the presidential elections, is this kind of limbo
  going to continue? Is it going to ramp up or are things going to
  change after the elections. How do you think things are going to
  play out?

NC: Well I think the next week is going to be
  absolutely critical here. Because if there are going to be any
  more massacres, like we saw in Odessa with 45 people burned alive
  there, then I think that Russia has obviously got to play a part
  here, and say look this can’t go on any longer; we’ve got a human
  rights issue here. We’ve got people in fear of their lives here;
  we’ve got the real possibilities of massacres in the East and the
  ball is in the court of the US and the EU by deliberately
  toppling the Yanukovich democratically elected government. So
  it’s up now to the US, to get on the phone to Kiev and to tell
  them to stop this operation. If this doesn’t happen, we could all
  be in some very dangerous territory indeed because Russia surely
  can’t just sit back and allow Russian people to be murdered. The
  next seven days are going to be absolutely crucial I think.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
