"WASHINGTON, May 29 (Xinhua) -- Former U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) contractor Edward Snowden said he had no relationship with the Russian government and had given Moscow no intelligence documents after nearly a year of asylum there.

I'm not supported by the Russian government. I'm not taking money from the Russian government, Snowden told NBC's Brian Williams, in his first interview with a U.S. television network that aired Wednesday evening.

Snowden said he destroyed classified materials before transiting to a Moscow airport. I took nothing to Russia, so I could give them nothing.

But former NSA Director Keith Alexander said earlier this month that it was likely Snowden was under the control of Russian intelligence agencies.

I think he is now being manipulated by Russian intelligence. I just don't know when that exactly started or how deep it runs, Alexander said in an interview with the Australian Financial Review newspaper.

Snowden is believed to have taken 1.7 million computerized documents. The leaked documents revealed massive programs run by the NSA that gathered information on emails, phone calls and Internet use, in many cases, by hundreds of millions of Americans.

He was charged last year in the United States with theft of government property, unauthorized communication of national defense information and willful communication of classified intelligence to an unauthorized person.

Snowden said he would like to go home, saying If I could go anywhere in the world, that place would be home.

But he added he would apply for an extension as his one-year asylum in Russia expires on Aug. 1.

U.S. officials said Snowden was welcome to return to the United States if he wanted to face justice for leaking details of massive U.S. intelligence-gathering programs.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry invited Snowden to man up and come back to the United States.

If he has a complaint about what's the matter with American surveillance, come back here and stand in our system of justice and make his case, Kerry told the CBS This Morning program on Wednesday.

Related:

Full Text: The United States' Global Surveillance Record

China Voice: Big Brother USA's spy charges are absurd

BEIJING, May 20 (Xinhua) -- As the most notorious surveillance country, the U.S. indictment of Chinese military officers seems almost insolent in a world still reeling at the scope of the U.S. spy network.

The Chinese military has never engaged in cyber theft of trade secrets, nonetheless, Washington has charged five members of the People's Liberation Army with hacking U.S. companies.  Full Story

Commentary: Cyber-spying charges against Chinese officers an indictment of U.S. hypocrisy

BEIJING, May 20 (Xinhua) -- The United States on Monday plunged itself into blatant hypocrisy as it slapped some fabricated cyber-espionage charges against five Chinese military officers.

The baseless accusation against the Chinese personnel of hacking into U.S. companies to steal trade secrets for Chinese state-owned firms is a telling indictment of Washington's double standard on cyber-security. Full Story

China publishes latest data of U.S. cyber attack

BEIJING, May 19 (Xinhua) -- A spokesperson for China's State Internet Information Office on Monday published the latest data of U.S. cyber attack, saying that China is a solid defender of cyber security.

The U.S. is the biggest attacker of China's cyber space, the spokesperson said, adding that the U.S. charges of hacking against five Chinese military officers on Monday are groundless. Full Story"
