"US authorizes $1bn to Ukraine in loan guarantees

Washington granted Kiev authorities $1 billion in loan guarantees, which came into force on Friday. The loan comes amid Kiev’s punitive military operation on eastern Ukraine, so far resulting in dozens killed and injured among the civilian population.


  The warranties and conditions of the $1 bn loan guarantees, that the US is giving acting
  through its Agency for International Development (USAID), are to
  be issued on Monday, according to the US Federal Register.
  
  The loan guarantees will be in accord with the agreement between
  the US and Ukraine made on April 14. The loan will apply to sums
  borrowed from Friday and thirty days after, not exceeding the
  total of $1 billion in principal amount and is to be repaid by
  Ukraine with interest.
  
  On May 7 Ukraine received its first emergency rescue money from
  the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The two-year program is to
  shell out over $17bn in aid to Ukraine's troubled economy. In
  total the international community has promised the coup-appointed
  authorities in Kiev $27bn.
  
  The country gripped by riots has over $9 bn in debt, including
  the Ukraine’s gas debt to Russia, which hit $3.5 bn in May.
  Russian energy minister Aleksandr Novak said in April that
  Ukraine’s growing gas debt may lead to the failure of the
  country’s transit obligations and the reduction of gas supplies
  to southeastern Europe.
  
  In December Russia provided a $15 billion no-strings-attached
  loan to former Kiev authorities headed by President Victor
  Yanukovich. However following the coup in Kiev in February Moscow
  rescinded the offer.
  
  The US loan guarantees come as the coup appointed authorities
  launched a punitive military operation in the eastern part of the
  country that has been gripped by anti-Kiev protests. The
  residents of the eastern Donetsk region outraged by Kiev’s
  policies are planning to hold a referendum on the federalization
  of the region on Sunday."
