"?Aussie intelligence requested US help to spy on own citizens

The Australian intelligence agency asked for US help to spy more effectively on Australian citizens suspected of terrorist activities in Indonesia, according to documents published by Glen Greenwald in his book based on Edward Snowden’s leaks.


  The extract was published by the British newspaper, The Guardian,
  as part of a promotion for the book, which is published on
  Tuesday.



  The extract comes from a February-21, 2011 letter from the acting
  deputy director of the Australian intelligence agency, Defense
  Signals Directorate (DSD), which has since been renamed the
  Australian Signals Directorate (ASD).



  The letter, which was sent to the NSA, mentioned DSD’s
  difficulties in obtaining “regular and reliable access”
  to communication data related to terrorist activities through
  their own effort.


“We have enjoyed a long and very productive partnership with
  the NSA in obtaining minimized access to US warranted collection
  against our highest value terrorist targets in Indonesia,”
  the letter said. This access has been critical of DSD’s
  efforts to disrupt and contain the operational capabilities of
  terrorists in our region, as highlighted by the recent arrest of
  fugitive Bali bomber, Umar Patek.”


  Patek was an Indonesian member of the terrorist organization,
  Jemaah Islamiyah. He was arrested in January 2011 for the role he
  played in the 2002 Bali bombings, which claimed 202 lives,
  including 88 Australians. Patek was sentenced to 20 years in jail
  in June 2012.


“We would very much welcome the opportunity to extend that
  partnership with NSA to cover the increasing number of
  Australians involved in international extremist activities – in
  particular Australians involved with AQAP,” the extract
  said, as cited by the newspaper.



  AQAP stands for Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, a branch of
  the international terrorist network.



  Australia is part of the so-called Five Eyes agreement on
  intelligence sharing together with the US, Canada, the UK and New
  Zealand. Previous publications based on documents leaked by
  Snowden showed that DSD offered sharing its the electronic
  communications metadata of Australian citizens it collected with
  its Five Eyes partners. It also targeted Indonesian President
  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, his ministers, advisers and even his
  wife, in efforts to monitor their mobile phone communications."
