"US troops arrive in Poland, Latvia for drills amid rising tensions over Ukraine

The first two waves of US troops have arrived in Poland and Latvia to begin military drills “promoting peace and stability” across Eastern Europe. Tensions continue to mount in the region, as Ukraine teeters on the brink of a civil war.


  A contingent of 150 American soldiers arrived in the Polish town
  of Swidwin on Thursday. Later in the evening another 150 US
  troops arrived in Riga, Latvian defence ministry confirmed. The
  two groups will be shortly joined by another 300 troops.



  The soldiers will participate in military exercises in Lithuania,
  Latvia and Estonia over the next three months, with a view to
  reassuring NATO allies in the region.



  Earlier the US embassy in Riga explained that a
  “company-sized contingent” of paratroopers from the U.S.
  Army Europe’s 173rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team is to take
  “part of a series of expanded US land force training
  activities in the Baltic region and Poland that are scheduled to
  take place for the next few months and beyond.”

“Through the troop deployment to Latvia the United States
  continues to demonstrate its commitment to NATO and to our
  collective defense responsibilities, by conducting additional
  military exercises, and enhancing security cooperation with its
  allies and partners in the Baltic and expanded region,” the
  embassy said.



  The US embassy in Latvia also claimed that US forces are prepared
  to use all of their capabilities “to reassure our Allies that
  we are prepared for any contingency to meet our Article 5
  obligations,” claiming that the brigade will stay in Latvia
  till the end of the year.



  Defense Department spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby, who
  announced the drills Tuesday, said they sent a clear message to
  Moscow.


If there's a message to Moscow, it is the same exact message
  that we take our obligations very, very seriously on the
  continent of Europe, Kirby told reporters. Washington has
  accused Russia of meddling in the affairs of neighboring Ukraine,
  which is currently embroiled in a crisis that shows no signs of
  de-escalation.



  Moscow categorically denies the accusations and says that
  Washington has orchestrated the unrest in Ukraine to further its
  geopolitical ambitions in the region. Russian Foreign Minister
  Sergey Lavrov told RT on Wednesday that “the Americans are
  running the show” and he denied claims of a Russian military
  presence in Ukraine.



  In addition, he said that the Russian troops massed along the
  Ukrainian border had been deployed for routine drills, something
  that has been verified by international inspectors.


“Ukraine is just one manifestation of the American
  unwillingness to yield in the geopolitical fight. Americans are
  not ready to admit that they cannot run the show in each and
  every part of the globe from Washington alone,” Lavrov said.



  In Ukraine, the coup-appointed government in Kiev re-launched an
  “anti-terror operation” in the east of the country after
  pledging to cease all violence at four-sided talks between the
  EU, the US, Russia and Ukraine in Geneva last week.



  Government tanks besieged the eastern city of Slavyansk on
  Thursday, killing five people as part of a self-proclaimed
  “anti-terror operation.” Pro-Russian activists have
  taken control of government buildings in the area to protest the
  coup-appointed government in Kiev, which they view as
  illegitimate.



  The Russian government has condemned the use of violence by the
  interim Ukrainian government on unarmed civilians in eastern
  Ukraine.


“In Geneva, we agreed there must be an end of all violence.
  Next afternoon [interim Ukrainian President Aleksandr] Turchinov
  declared almost a state of emergency and ordered the army to
  shoot at the people,” Lavrov told RT.



  Russia does not recognize the government that rose to power in
  Kiev on February 22, following weeks of deadly protests."
