"Up to 100 killed in Kiev military op, Donetsk E. Ukraine - anti-govt forces

More than 50 self-defense fighters and as many civilians have been killed since Ukrainian troops stepped up their offensive in the region on Monday, according to the PM of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic, Aleksandr Boroday.


  Follow RT's LIVE
  UPDATES on Eastern Ukraine


“We’ve lost more than 50 self-defense fighters,” Boroday
  said, as cited by RIA Novosti. “Many of the casualties are a
  result of two Kamaz trucks having been shelled by the Ukrainian
  army. The trucks were driving the wounded from the battlefield
  near the airport. Around 15 people died there.”


  Boroday spoke to journalists next to a morgue in Donestk where
  identification of the bodies is under way.


“Two of our Kamaz trucks were fired at from the air and from
  an ambush on the ground. Shooting the wounded runs contrary to
  all international conventions,” Boroday added.



  He said the significant number of casualties could be explained
  by extensive use of air force by the Ukrainian military on
  Monday.



  Chairman of the Donetsk People’s Republic Supreme council, Denis
  Pushilin, also estimated that around 100 people might have been
  killed by Ukrainian troops.



  It’s still “impossible to pick up all of the dead bodies as
  snipers are shooting at anyone who tries to come near them,”
  Pushilin said.



  Donetsk City Council, however, puts the number of casualties at
  40, with the official statement released by its press office
  saying that two civilians and 38 fighters died.”



    Îáñòğåëÿííûé íî÷üş êàìàç ñòîğîííèêîâ ÄÍĞ 
    #Äîíåöê Ïîäòâåğæäàşò 30 ïîãèáøèõ pic.twitter.com/32TG6Iq7Ao
    — Îëüãà Èâøèíà (@oivshina) May
    27, 2014


  Footage by LifeNews shows a truck full of dead bodies.
  Representatives of the self-defense squads say they cannot yet
  give the names of those killed; the process of identification has
  only just began.



  “They were wounded. The car was driving them from a
  battlefield,” a masked representative of the self-defense
  forces in Donetsk told LifeNews. “First snipers shot the
  driver, then they fired point-blank at the rest from a
  shoulder-launcher. The survivors were then gunned down by Right
  Sector militants - no one in the truck survived.”



  Also overnight, self-defense forces reported that Ukrainian
  military opened fire at an ambulance transporting two injured
  from the Donetsk airport. The doctors inside the ambulance were
  unharmed, deputy of Donbass’ self-defense forces, Sergey
  Tsypakov, told RIA Novosti. The two wounded remain in the
  ambulance and it is not possible to evacuate them at this point,
  he added.



  This comes as the Ukrainian military is broadening its offensive
  against anti-Kiev forces in the southeast of the country.



  The fighting in Donetsk continued throughout the night around the
  airport, which was on Monday taken under control by Ukrainian
  troops, after they unleashed fighter jets and helicopters at the
  armed self-defense forces, who occupied the airport earlier in
  the day.
  
  Boroday claims the troops also suffered losses.


“They were on the offensive, that’s why their losses have not
  been that big. We intercept their conversations, they are
  demoralized and are counting on breaking through from the
  airport.”


  Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov, however, denies any
  casualties on the army side.


The airport is fully under control. The enemy sustained
  serious losses, we have none,” Avakov said on Tuesday, as
  cited by the ministry’s press service.



  A self-defense fighter called Evgeny, wounded in the fighting at
  the airport, told RT the National Guard wasn’t just shooting at
  military targets.



  “They occasionally turned their weapons away from us and
  started firing at two-storeyed buildings, private houses - they
  were demolishing first floors, and also shooting at a
  school.”



  A video posted on YouTube reportedly shows Ukrainian jets
  attacking the area around the airport on Monday.



  Airstrikes started after the self-defense forces failed to comply
  with the ultimatum put forward by Kiev's troops, that is to
  surrender by 1pm local time, Vladislav Seleznyov, the head of the
  counter-terror operation said on his Facebook page.



  The State Aviation Service halted air traffic through the airport
  till 9.00am local time Tuesday.



  Loud explosions and gunfire were reported from Donetsk throughout
  the day, with Ukrainian army aircraft occasionally circling
  around the airport.



  Reports of fighting outside the city airport also emerged. RT’s
  sources in Donetsk said a private housing area was being shelled
  by mortar fire “for over an hour.”



  Also on Monday, at least three civilians were reportedly killed and several wounded when the Ukrainian
  military launched a mortar attack on the town of Slavyansk in
  eastern Ukraine.



  The clashes in Donetsk began just a few hours after the early
  results of the elections were announced.



  Ukrainian confectionary tycoon Pyotr Poroshenko is winning the presidential election in the
  first round of voting, having secured more than 50 percent of
  votes.



  Government troops will go on with the military operation until
  not a single self-defense fighter “is left on the territory
  of Ukraine,” said Vice Premier Vitaly Yarema, as cited by
  RIA Novosti.



  Yarema said the military operation was suspended on May 25, the
  day the presidential election was held in Ukraine.



  “It has now been resumed, we saw the results yesterday,”
  Yarema said on Tuesday. He did not specify how long the operation
  might take.



  President Putin once again urged “immediate termination of
  the military punitive operation in the southeastern regions [of
  Ukraine] and a launch of peaceful dialogue between Kiev and the
  regions,” says a statement issued on Tuesday by his
  press-service."
