"?US blames Russia as Kiev unleashes armored vehicles against civilians

Washington has voiced support for the bloody crackdown on anti-coup activists in the southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, blaming Russia for inciting the violence there. In the meantime OSCE condemned the use of force by Kiev.


  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has
  condemned the actions of Ukrainian military in using force
  against pro-federalization activists and civilians in the city of
  Mariupol.


“I strongly condemn the violence, and call upon all parties
  to exercise maximum restraint and to take immediate steps to
  de-escalate a situation which has caused the loss of many lives,
  and created a climate of fear and anxiety,” said Chief
  Monitor of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine,
  Ambassador Ertugrul Apakan.



  At the same time, US State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki
  seemingly condemned the violence too, which she immediately
  blamed on “pro-Russia separatists.”

“Well, we condemn the outbreak of violence caused by
  pro-Russia separatists this morning in Mariupol, which has
  resulted in multiple deaths,” she said.



  Despite clear evidence that Kiev has used heavy armored vehicles
  and tanks against the civilian population, on the day which is
  considered holy by most of Ukrainians, the Victory Day, the US
  State Department continued to blame local pro-federalization
  militias – almost defenceless compared to the outnumbering
  Ukranian armed forces – for the bloodshed.


“We continue to call for groups who have jeopardized public
  order by taking up arms and seizing public buildings in violation
  of Ukrainian law to disarm and leave the buildings they have
  seized. So certainly, we are aware of that. We’re watching it
  very closely,” Psaki said.



  Even-though Washington is repeatedly endorsed Kiev's military
  operation in the southeast of the country, Psaki called on Moscow
  to act.


“Any steps Russia would be willing to take to defuse tensions
  in accordance with its Geneva commitments. We’ve seen their words
  before. What we’re waiting for is actions, and if this crisis is
  going to end, we need their words to be made real,” Psaki
  said referring to President's Putin's recent call for a direct dialogue between Kiev and
  anti-coup protesters in southeast Ukraine as a key measure to
  ending the crisis.


“So if they are serious about what they’re saying, they need
  to tell separatists to lay down their arms, to release those who
  are being held, and that, obviously, we have not seen
  happen,” Psaki added.



  There are conflicting reports about the killed and injured, when
  Ukrainian military attacked the positions of self-defense squads
  in in the eastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol in the Azov Sea
  city, near the Russian border. Self-defense forces have managed
  to prevent the takeover of the city, which has been held by
  pro-federalization supporters for over a week.



  The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said that about 20 so-called
  “terrorists” were killed and four more were taken
  captive, according to a statement posted on Interior Minister
  Arsen Avakov’s Facebook page. According to Mariupol health
  officials, at least 7 people have been killed and 39 injured, Ria
  Novosti reports. Amids fighting, RT’s stringer in Mariupol has
  been injured while trying to film and is now in hospital. Doctors
  say that in spite of his bulletproof vest he has sustained a
  serious injury in the abdomen and now remains in critical condition."
