"EU ‘should be ashamed’ after sanctions on Russia - Moscow

The Russian Foreign Ministry responded with a scathing statement to the EU’s new round of sanctions against Russia, saying Europe apparently has no insight into the political situation in Ukraine.

“Instead of forcing the Kiev clique to sit down with
  south-eastern Ukraine to negotiate the country’s future political
  system, our partners are toeing Washington’s line to take more
  unfriendly gestures towards Russia,” the statement declared.


“If somebody in Brussels hopes to stabilize the situation in
  Ukraine by this, it is evidence of a total lack of understanding
  of the internal political situation in that country and invites
  local neo-Nazis to continue their lawlessness and thuggery
  towards the peaceful civilians of the south-east,” the
  statement said. “Are you not ashamed?”


  The reproof comes in response to EU’s unveiling a list of 15
  names targeted by the union’s new round of sanctions against
  Russia over its stance on the Ukrainian political crisis. The
  move comes a day after a similar move by Washington, although the
  American sanctions targeted fewer people and are also aimed at
  some Russian companies.



  The EU list includes Russian officials like Deputy Prime Minister
  Dmitry Kozak, Chief of General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces
  Valery Gerasimov, Russia’s new Minister for Crimean Affairs Oleg
  Savelyev and Crimea’s new Senator Olga Kovitidi.



  It also target Ukrainian leaders of the protest movement in the
  east of the country, including Igor Strelkov, a Ukrainian militia
  commander in Slavyansk, who Kiev claims is actually a Russian
  military intelligence officer named Igor Girkin. Kiev failed to
  provide any proof of the claims, and its previous US-endorsed
  evidence of alleged Russian military presence in Ukraine proved
  to be false.



  The Tuesday move brings to 48 the number of individuals targeted
  by European asset freezes and travel bans.



  Unlike Washington, Brussels didn’t level sanctions against
  businessmen like Igor Sechin, the head of Russian energy giant
  Rosneft, who is reputed to have strong ties with President
  Vladimir Putin, but does not hold any office in the Russian
  government.



  The individuals targeted by the sanctions were calm and sarcastic
  about them, as was the case with the previous rounds of
  sanctions.


“It’s such small thing that has no effect on my life or work
  that I could only say ‘stupid, but flattering’” Savelyev
  told ITAR-TASS.



  Russian Senate Speaker Valentina Matvienko, who was targeted by a
  previous round of personal sanctions, said Russia “may thank
  the West, because with their actions they are consolidating
  further the Russian society, while Russia has enough resilience
  to respond to any possible damage from such sanctions.”


  In a separate move on Tuesday Japan issued visa bans on 23
  people, expanding its own sanctions against Russia. The Russian
  Foreign Ministry called the move “clumsy” and
  “obviously taken under foreign pressure,” adding that it
  would not go without a response.



  The US and its allies are imposing more sanctions against Russian
  and Ukrainian individuals and companies in a bid to ramp up the
  cost of Moscow’s policy towards Ukraine. The West accuses Russia
  of deliberately escalating tensions in eastern Ukraine in a bid
  to undermine the authorities in Kiev, which are considered mostly
  illegitimate by Russia, but are supported by Western countries.



  Russia sees the attitude as duplicitous, considering the support
  the US and the EU gave to anti-government protest in Kiev, which
  escalated into an armed coup that brought the current leadership
  of Ukraine into power. It also says Kiev is failing to do the
  necessary steps towards defusing the situation, namely disarming
  the nationalist militias which were the cornerstone of the coup,
  and calling off the military crackdown on the protest in the
  east."
