"Obama rolls out new sanctions on Russia, Moscow says it won't hurt

New round of Western sanction against Russia will target seven individuals and 17 companies. They are meant to affect Moscow’s stance over the ongoing Ukrainian crisis.


  The individuals listed by the US Department of Treasury on Monday
  include Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak, chair of the
  parliamentary commission on Foreign Affairs, Aleksey Pushkov,
  chief of presidential office, Vyacheslav Volodin, and Igor
  Sechin, the head of Rosneft oil company.
  
  The list of sanctioned companies, which Washington believes to be
  “linked to Putin’s inner circle,” includes several banks,
  construction and transport companies.
  
  The Volga Group, an investment vehicle that manages assets on
  behalf of the businessman, Gennady Timchenko, and SMP Bank, whose
  main shareholders were affected by the previous set of US
  sanctions, are among those to face restrictive measures.
  
  Oil and gas engineering company, Stroytransgaz, and one of
  Russia’s biggest rail transporters of oil, Transoil, are also
  among the companies affected by the sanctions.
  
  The US Department of Commerce has introduced additional
  restrictions on 13 of those companies by imposing a license
  requirement with a presumption of denial for the export,
  re-export or other foreign transfer of US-originating items to
  the companies.
  
  Later in the day, Washington announced a tightened policy to deny
  export license applications for any high-technology items that
  could contribute to Russia’s military capabilities.
  
  But the US may move even further and impose sanctions against
  specific branches of the Russian economy if Moscow begins a
  military operation in Ukraine, Jay Carney, White House spokesman,
  said.



  The announcement of a new round of US sanctions against Russia is
  “revolting” as they go against the way civilized states should
  communicate, Sergey Ryabkov, Russia’s deputy foreign minister,
  said.
  
  “We will respond, although it is not our choice,” Ryabkov is
  cited as saying by Itar-Tass news agency. “But we can’t leave
  this situation without reaction, without practical reaction,
  without reaction by means of our own decisions. US behavior in
  the field is becoming provocative.”
  According to the deputy FM, the American decision stems from a
  “distorted and groundless” assumption on the state of
  affairs in Ukraine.



  Obama said the US and its allies would keep broader sanctions
  “in reserve” in the event of further escalation on the
  ground in Ukraine. He admitted that he was uncertain whether the
  latest round of measures would be effective.


“The goal is not to go after Mr. Putin personally; the goal
  is to change his calculus, to encourage him to walk the walk, not
  just talk the talk on diplomacy to resolve the crisis,
  Obama said in Manila during a trip to Asia.


Video:
  /files/news/25/eb/40/00/oliver_1600_480p.mp4


  As the US pushes for more sanctions against Russia, EU members
  have preliminary agreed to also impose asset freezes and visa
  bans on 15 more people. The names of those to be added to the
  list will not be made public until they are published in the EU's
  Official Journal on Tuesday, Reuters reported citing an unnamed
  diplomat source. However, Many Europeans opposed anti-Russian
  sanctions, which would target the economy as opposed to
  individuals close to the Russian leadership, since economic
  sanctions would hurt European economies as well as that of
  Russia. The US, being economically tied with Russia to a much
  lesser degree than Europe, says it would not impose economic
  sanctions unilaterally.


“I would be very surprised if all European countries found a
  common position on economic sanctions,” Thierry Mariani, a
  member of the French National Assembly, told RT. “When one
  country says ‘we don’t speak about finance’… and some other
  country says ‘we don’t speak about energy,’ then we don’t speak
  about anything. That’s why we arrive unfortunately [at] personal
  sanctions, which are completely nonsense.”


  Canada has also imposed sanctions on two Russian banks and nine
  individuals, Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a statement
  announcing the measures on Monday. Harper's office did not
  immediately provide names.



  The Russian leadership has thus far brushed off the threat of
  sanctions as ineffectual, arguing they might in fact buoy the
  Russian economy in the long term.


“Overreliance can lead to a loss of sovereignty,”
  Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a media forum in St
  Petersburg on Thursday.



  Western-led sanctions have several advantages for Russia, Putin
  said.



  Putin said the threat of real economic sanctions is already
  bolstering domestic businesses, bringing more offshore funds back
  to Russia, and giving policymakers the push they need to
  establish a domestic payment system.



  His comments echo sentiments made by Russian Prime
  Minister Dmitry Medvedev last week, who similarly argued that
  further sanctions would only make Russia stronger.


“Thanks to Western sanctions, Russia has been given the
  incentive to reduce its dependence on outside and instead
  regional economies are being more self-sufficient, Medvedev
  said April 22.



  Medvedev said any restrictions on Russian goods to the EU or US
  would serve to redirect Russian exports to Asian markets, which
  are more robust."
