"Russia should ignore Washington's 'new Cold War'

Washington desperately needs a new Cold War with Russia to ensure a healthy Military-Security Complex and to maintain global hegemony, former Reagan administration official Paul Craig Roberts told RT in an interview.

The best thing the Russian government could do is just
  ignore [Washington's rhetoric] and go on making its relations
  with China, India, Brazil, and South America, and go on about its
  business and leave the dollar system, and simply quit trying to
  be accepted by Washington, said Roberts, also an economist
  and columnist on global affairs.


RT:The way that some US officials are
  speaking, it seems that NATO seriously believes that Russia is
  set to invade the Baltic states.

PCR: What this is all about is that Washington
  had hoped to grab Ukraine, especially the Russian naval base in
  Crimea, in order to cut Russia off from the port and access to
  the Mediterranean. Now, Washington lost that game. They're trying
  to retrieve it by starting a new Cold War, and that's what all
  this talk is about.



  They're pretending that Russia is going to invade the Baltics or
  Eastern Europe. This is absurd.


RT:NATO is building up its forces in the
  Baltic region. Isn't this a dangerously provocative step in terms
  of a new Cold War?

PCR: Washington wants a Cold War, they need it.
  They've been defeated in Afghanistan, they were blocked from
  attacking Syria and Iran, so they've got to keep the
  military-security complex funded, because that's where an
  important part of their campaign contributions comes from. When
  Washington gives the taxpayers' money to the military sector, it
  is cycled back in campaign contributions to keep them in office.
  They have to have conflict. With the wars in the Middle East
  winding down, apparently, they have to start new conflict, and
  since they lost their plan to take over Ukraine - which has
  defected, much of it, back to Russia - they're going to start a
  new Cold War.That's what this means. Now they haven't put enough
  troops or aircraft in these countries to make any difference, but
  they want to.



  So what Russia is faced with is a new Cold War, and the best
  thing the Russian government could do is just ignore it and go on
  making its relations with China, India, Brazil, and South
  America, and go on about its business and leave the dollar
  system, and simply quit trying to be accepted by Washington.



  Washington is not going to accept - let me read you the [former
  US Defense Department Deputy Secretary Paul] Wolfowitz Doctrine:
  Our first objective is to prevent the reemergence of a new
  rival, either on the territory of the former Soviet Union or
  elsewhere, that poses a threat on the order of that posed
  formerly by the Soviet Union. This is a dominant consideration
  underlying the new Defense strategy, and requires that we
  endeavor to prevent any hostile power from dominating a region
  whose resources would, under their control, be sufficient to
  generate global power. By hostile power,
  Wolfowitz means any country that is not under Washington's thumb
  - any independent country.



  So that's the doctrine here, and I think the best thing the
  Russian government can do is acknowledge that that is the
  doctrine. They can't work anything out with this doctrine because
  Russia - being a rising, powerful state, like China - is by
  definition a hostile power.

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
