"Hungary sends special forces unit to Ukraine after citizen ‘kidnapped by gunmen’

A special Hungarian counter-terrorist unit has been dispatched to Ukraine after Budapest learned a Hungarian citizen has been captured by unidentified armed men in Ukrainian “conflict zone,” local media reports.


  A special unit of Hungary’s Counter-Terrorism Center (TEK) has
  arrived in an undisclosed area in Ukraine to try and free the
  captured Hungarian citizen, TEK’s Director General, Janos Hajdu,
  told local ATV channel on Tuesday.
  
  According to Hajdu, the man, who is working for a Ukrainian
  company, was doing his job driving a car with Hungarian plates
  somewhere in the “Ukrainian conflict zone,” when he was
  stopped and detained by unknown gunmen. The incident took place
  after the driver “strayed to the wrong place,” Hajdu
  said.
  
  Although the circumstances have so far remained unclear, Hajdu
  said it did not appear to be a “classic” hostage-taking
  situation, as nobody has asked for ransom for the man. Citing
  operational channels, the Hungarian official said the man was in
  good condition but has been kept in detention by his captors.
  
  In order to secure the release of the Hungarian, a special TEK
  unit was “immediately” sent to Ukraine under the
  existing Kiev’s treaties with Hungary, a NATO, EU and OSCE member
  state. TEK has contacted relevant Ukrainian authorities and has
  been in constant touch with the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, Hajdu
  told local MTI agency.
  
  The official, however, refused to speculate on how long the
  special operation could last, saying it could take anything
  between hours and months.
  
  Recently, it took one month and two days for Moscow to free a Russian girl trapped in the besieged
  eastern Ukrainian city of Slavyansk without her parents, who were
  denied entrance to the country. Eventually, Russian diplomats
  managed to get the girl out across the border in “an
  absolutely legal” way, according to Russia’s ombudsman for
  children’s rights, Pavel Astakhov.
  
  Astakhov said the Kiev authorities have failed to comply with the
  Geneva Convention for the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time
  of War, adding that Moscow will address the UN and the European
  Council to remind Ukraine of its international obligations.
  
  Two Russian reporters captured by Ukrainian National Guard in
  eastern Ukraine on Sunday continue to be detained by Kiev
  authorities, who accuse them of “aiding the terrorist groups,”
  despite calls by the OSCE and Moscow to release the journalists. A
  Twitter campaign for the journalists’ release under the hashtag
  #SaveOurGuys has been trending in Russian and
  Ukrainian Twitterspheres since its launch Monday.
  
  On Tuesday, a UK journalist and RT contributor Graham Phillips
  said he was detained by the National Guard at
  a check point in south-eastern Ukraine. Phillips told RT he was
  being interrogated and contact has been lost ever since."
