"Russia ready for dialogue with likely Ukraine President-elect Poroshenko

Russia’s foreign minister says Moscow is ready for dialogue with Petro Poroshenko, current leader of the presidential vote tally, but would like to see him end the military operation in Ukraine's southeast. Poroshenko believes the operation must go on.


  Sergey Lavrov shared Russia’s first reaction to reports of
  Poroshenko winning the election at a press conference in Moscow.
  “We hear Petro Poroshenko describe relations with Russia as
  of the utmost importance,” Lavrov said. We, as [the
  Russian] president repeated many times, are ready for dialogue
  with Kiev, ready for dialogue with Petro Poroshenko.


  Lavrov believes Russia and Ukraine do not need any mediators to
  get relations between the countries back on a friendly footing.
  “We are ready to cooperate with the EU and the US in what
  comes to implementation of the [OSCE’s] ‘roadmap’. But I doubt we
  need a mediator in our relations with Ukraine,” he said.



  Moscow would like to see Poroshenko deliver on his election
  campaign promise to stop the military operation in southeastern
  Ukraine.


“We cannot close our eyes on the fact the so-called
  anti-terrorist operation was not suspended [during the
  elections],” Lavrov said. “And only yesterday Deputy PM
  [Vitaly] Yarema said that now the voting had taken place, the
  authorities in Kiev would resume the active phase of the
  operation. That would be a huge mistake.”


  Since April, Kiev has been engaged in a military crackdown on
  dissent in the volatile southeastern regions of Donetsk and
  Lugansk, which had their independence from Kiev supported by a
  majority of voters in May 11 referendums.
  
  The military stand-off between Ukrainian troops and self-defense
  forces have already led to dozens of casualties. An Italian
  reporter and his Russian interpreter were killed in a mortar attack on Saturday.
  
  The self-proclaimed authorities in Donetsk earlier announced the
  region would boycott the presidential election altogether.
  However, according to the Ukrainian Central Elections Commission,
  12 percent of the Donetsk Region’s population took part in the
  voting.



  Poroshenko: Military op to go on, will be more effective



  Billionaire Petro Poroshenko, who is currently leading in the
  Ukrainian presidential election, is supporting continuing the
  military operation in the southeast of the country.



  “I don’t have the information, denoting that it [the
  operation] must now be stopped,” Poroshenko said at a news
  conference, as cited by RIA Novosti. I support its
  continuation, but demand a change in its format – it must be
  shorter and it must be more effective, military units must be
  better equipped.”



  Although the statement runs contrary to expectations voiced by
  Russia’s Foreign Minister, Poroshenko said he was ready to accept
  Moscow’s help in solving the crisis in the southeast of Ukraine.



  “Russia is our biggest neighbor and taking into account the
  fact that we must stop the war and give peace to the whole of
  Ukraine and stability to its eastern part, that’s impossible to
  do without Russia’s participation, and meeting with the Russian
  leadership”.



  Poroshenko said he planned to schedule a meeting for the first
  half of June.



  “This is not just to shake hands and to part… we expect
  important consequences from the meeting,” Poroshenko said.



  The likely Ukrainian President-elect said he was ready to have a
  dialogue with the southeast of the country, and promised amnesty
  to those self defense fighters who took up arms, but did not use
  them.



  “Those who reject the dialogue, won’t be a party to the
  negotiations. We do not negotiate with terrorists,”
  Poroshenko said.



  He added he was ready to grant “official status” to the
  Russian language in the largely Russian-speaking southeast of
  Ukraine.



  Head of OSCE mission: Many were violently prevented from casting
  votes



  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe sent over
  1,200 observers from 47 countries to monitor the presidential
  elections in Ukraine. Though in the end the organization
  commended the process, Ukraine mission head Tana de Zulueta told
  RT that many people were obstructed from voting.



  “We had no observers from our team in Donetsk city on May 25,
  because there was no polling. We moved observers to open polling
  stations in the western region,” Tana de Zulueta said.



  “We are not in the business of legitimizing elections, we
  report the process. And we had to take note that there was a high
  number of voters who were not able to cast their vote, because
  they were violently prevented from doing so – had they wished to
  do so. We cannot discount the fact they were denied their
  right,” she added.



  The OSCE did not get direct reports of serious violations, but
  several were brought to attention by witnesses and will be
  followed in the court, Tana de Zulueta assured.


Watch RT’s full interview with Tana de Zulueta

Video:
  /files/news/27/6d/40/00/1661644_osce_480p.mp4"
