"Chinese general slams US over Asia-Pacific ‘hegemony’

As US Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel used a security forum in Singapore to criticize Chinese “intimidation” tactics in the South China Sea disputes, Beijing rebuked the US for its “completely non-constructive” comments “full of hegemony and threats.”


  “Hagel’s speech was full of hegemony,” said Lt. Gen.
  Wang Guanzhong, as quoted by The Financial Times. “It
  was…filled with instigation, threat and intimidation, which
  wanted to incite the destabilizing factors of Asia-Pacific region
  to stir up disputes.”
  In his address to the Shangri-La Dialogue conference, Hagel
  commented on China’s recent tensions with Vietnam and the
  Philippines over disputed territories in the South China Sea, as
  well as its establishment of an air defense identification zone
  in the East China Sea - which includes islands that both China
  and Japan claim as their own.
  
  “In recent months, China has undertaken destabilizing,
  unilateral actions asserting its claims in the South China Sea.
  It has restricted access to Scarborough Reef; put pressure on the
  long-standing Philippine presence at the Second Thomas Shoal;
  begun land reclamation activities at multiple locations; and,
  moved an oil rig into disputed waters near the Paracel
  Islands,” Hagel said.
  
  Those charges are groundless,” Maj. Gen. Zhu Chenghu stressed to Wall Street Journal, adding that
  the Americans are making very, very important strategic
  mistakes right now.”If you take China as an enemy, China will absolutely become
  the enemy of the US, Gen. Zhu warned. If the Americans
  take China as an enemy, we Chinese have to take steps to make
  ourselves a qualified enemy of the US. But if the Americans take
  China as a friend, China will be a very loyal friend; and if they
  take China as a partner, China will be a very cooperative
  partner.


  At the same time, Hagel didn’t wish to steer away from China
  completely in his address, asserting that a joint military
  engagement with Beijing is also in everyone’s best interests.
  
  All nations of the region, including China, have a choice:
  to unite and recommit to a stable regional order, or, to walk
  away from that commitment and risk the peace and security that
  has benefited millions of people throughout the Asia Pacific, and
  billions around the world, he said.
  
  But things are not as clear-cut as the Singapore forum may
  portray them to be. Hagel’s remarks also come amidst reports that
  the US has quietly deployed two advanced military drones to Japanese
  bases. It also comes during the cyber spying scandal in which
  China says Washington has actually fabricated evidence
  against the Chinese military.



  Japan eyes ‘proactive pacifism’



  On Friday, the Shangri-La Dialogue conference in Singapore saw
  US-backed Japan stress regional cooperation with a policy of
  “proactive pacifism.” Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the
  neighbors are “in an area in which it’s no longer possible
  for any one nation to secure its own peace by itself.”
  In April, Tokyo received backing from the US which said that the
  territories - called 'Senkaku' in the Japanese tradition - are
  “under the administration of Japan.” At the Singapore
  conference, the Obama Administration again made it clear it
  favors Japan taking the lead and ensuring regional security.
  Japan then went as far as promising to provide coast guard and
  air support in the South China Sea.
  
  The pledge was accompanied by explanations as to why Japan wants
  to move away from its post-WWII promise of not engaging in
  military operations overseas, hence the “proactive”
  rhetoric that Abe insisted would go towards “making peace in
  Asia and the world something more certain.”
  The PM’s concern is that ever since the pacifist policy, Japan’s
  Self-Defense Forces have been “unable to rescue”
  civilians on foreign ground, despite having “superb defense
  equipment.”
  China believed Abe’s claims to be a thinly-veiled attempt at
  restoring Japan's regional supremacy.
  “He has made it into a bigger issue – that is China as a
  country is posing a threat to Japan as a country,” Beijing’s
  chief delegate at the Shangri-la talks, Fu Ying, told the guests
  on Friday, adding that this is nothing but a “myth” and
  an attempt to “amend the security policy of Japan” –
  something China is very concerned about.
  
  While such back-and-forth military posturing has been set in
  motion with players on different sides backing Japan and China,
  some experts believe such rhetoric by Japan is a step back from
  security considerations and can only be interpreted by Beijing as
  Tokyo’s “piling on” of military might in concert with the United
  States.
  
  “The Abe government has proposed that it’s going to begin to
  sell military items, coastguard vessels, war materials, etc. to
  other countries in South-East Asia – and Asia – and is going to
  take a role which is essentially to make it an active ally of the
  United States,” Conn Hallinan, a writer for Foreign Policy
  in Focus, said.
  “What it seems like, I think, if you’re in Beijing, is that
  Japan is piling on, along with the United States. [That] can lead
  to mistakes and serious tragedy.”"
