"Moscow's roadmap for Ukraine settlement sees mixed response

Moscow’s call on pro-federalization protesters in Ukraine to postpone the referendums was welcomed by the West and Kiev, yet they still do not recognize the need to halt the military op in southeast as a prerequisite for national dialogue and elections.


  Ukraine presidential hopeful Pyotr Poroshenko (UDAR Party) has
  welcomed President Vladimir Putin’s statements, saying that the
  situation significantly improved following the news from Moscow.
  “We have an appeal to stop an illegal referendum, Russia
  accepting presidential elections. I think this is great news for
  stabilizing the situation in eastern Ukraine,” Poroshenko
  told reporters in Berlin.



  On Wednesday, Putin called the presidential election in Ukraine, now
  scheduled for May 25, “a move in the right direction”
  adding however it would mean nothing unless all citizens of
  Ukraine have a full understanding of how their rights would be
  guaranteed afterwards.



  The direct dialogue between Kiev and representatives of the
  southeastern regions is the “key element” of settling
  the conflict, Putin said, supported on this by the OSCE
  Chairperson-in-Office and Swiss President Didier Burkhalter. In
  order to “create the necessary conditions for this
  dialogue,” Putin urged rescheduling of the referendum
  planned by anti-government protesters to determine the future of
  southeastern Ukraine.



  However, for a dialogue to succeed, a ceasefire and halt of any
  violence should take place by all the military, paramilitary and
  illegal radical armed groups, Putin added. “Russia urgently
  appeals to the authorities in Kiev to cease immediately all
  military and punitive operations in southeast Ukraine,” he
  said.



  Russia is not responsible for the deepening crisis in Ukraine,
  Putin reiterated,
  reciting concrete steps it made to de-escalate tensions.


“We have been told that our troops by the Ukrainian border
  are a concern – we have withdrawn them. They are now not near the
  border, but at locations where they conduct regular drills at
  ranges,” he said. “This can be easily verified using
  modern intelligence techniques, including from space, where
  everything can be seen.”

“We helped to secure the OSCE military observers’ release and
  I think also made a contribution to defusing the situation,”
  he added.



  The President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy,
  noted on Wednesday evening that a
  “genuine national dialogue and the cessation of acts of
  violence and provocations are essential elements in advancing
  towards a political solution.”

“I take note of President Putin's recent statements
  signalling a willingness to de-escalate the situation, including
  his call to refrain from holding a referendum in the Eastern part
  of Ukraine and the stated withdrawal of Russian troops from the
  borders of Ukraine,” Rompuy said.



  The United States however claimed that, although being a step
  forward, is not enough and Russia should try harder to deescalate
  tensions in Ukraine.


“It is a helpful step but again there is far more the
  President Putin and the Russians can do to deescalate the
  situation and to ensure safe elections,” US State Department
  spokeswoman Jen Psaki told journalists on Wednesday evening,
  without elaborating on which other moves she was expecting from
  Russia.



  Shortly afterwords, Ukraine's foreign ministry issued a 
  statement welcoming the important role of the OSCE in
  international efforts aimed at de-escalating the situation,
  but adding that Moscow was covering up its support of
  terrorist actions against Ukrainian citizens behind a
  facade of good will.

“A full-scale national dialogue… is an absolute priority of
  the Government of Ukraine,” the ministry’s statement
  reads.“However, a dialogue with terrorists is impermissible
  and unconceivable. Protection of peoples’ lives and elimination
  of terrorism which undermines any possibility of the dialogue is
  the goal of the anti-terrorist operation being conducted in
  certain locations in the east of our country.”


  The OSCE was ready to take responsibility for coordinating the
  “roadmap” to resolve the crisis and negotiations with
  the US and the EU would be taking place soon, Burkhalter said
  earlier. But Ukraine’s FM stated that discussion of the peaceful
  settlement in Ukraine “without Ukraine” is
  “senseless and unacceptable.”


  Representatives of the southeast in the meantime said they were
  ready for negotiations with Kiev and would on Thursday discuss
  possible rescheduling of the referendum.



  But neither those in power in Kiev, nor the United States seem to
  be interested in accepting any kind of roadmap that could bring
  about peaceful solution to the crisis, Lawrence Freeman of the
  Executive Intelligence Review magazine told RT.


“You have to keep in mind that the US State Department and in
  particular Victoria Nuland, who has been behind this coup since
  the end of last year, these are people who are actually running
  the show. And they want to force a confrontation. They’ve been
  lying about the entire situation since February 21-22… have not
  been telling the truth about who is actually responsible for the
  confrontations in Kiev and in Eastern Ukraine,” Freeman
  said.



  The roadmap proposed by President Putin and the OSCE chief,
  Freeman believes, is the best way of ”avoiding the
  confrontation” some would like to have with Russia.


“I think President Putin is actually strategically handling
  the situation quite well. Because he knows that there are people
  who would like to use this conflict to escalate to major war. So
  he is outmanoeuvring the actual people behind this,” Freeman
  said.



  If authorities in Kiev are really worried about Ukraine’s future
  as a country and its territorial integrity, Freeman says they
  have no other choice but stop their full-scale military operation
  against the population in the southeast.


“They have to, if they want to have a country,” he said.
  “They cannot allow neo-Nazis and right-wing fascists to run
  the country, to be part of security and military operation. If
  they want to be a country – they can’t do that.”"
