"Russia-China ties at highest level in history – Putin

Russia-China cooperation has reached its highest level ever, Russian President Vladimir Putin has said in an interview with Chinese media on the eve of his visit to Shanghai, where a record package of documents is expected to be signed by the two nations.


  Below is the full transcript of the Russian president’s interview
  with Chinese Central Television, Xinhua news agency, China News
  Service, The People's Daily, China Radio International, and
  Phoenix Television.


Question: What are your expectations
  concerning the upcoming visit to China? What results do you
  expect from the Summit of the Conference on Interaction and
  Confidence Building Measures in Asia in Shanghai?

Vladimir Putin: I am always happy to visit
  hospitable China. It is a pleasure to see how our neighbour is
  transforming right before our eyes. Shanghai is a vivid
  illustration of this.



  Establishing closer ties with the People’s Republic of China –
  our trusted friend – is Russia's unconditional foreign policy
  priority.



  Now Russia-China cooperation is advancing to a new stage of
  comprehensive partnership and strategic interaction. It would not
  be wrong to say that it has reached the highest level in all its
  centuries-long history.



  I am looking forward to a new meeting with President of China Xi
  Jinping, with whom I have good working and personal relations. We
  will discuss how previous agreements are being implemented and
  outline new objectives for the future. I am sure that the
  upcoming talks will give a powerful impetus to further
  strengthening of bilateral cooperation in all areas and deeper
  coordination in the international arena. The summit’s results and
  future plans will be reflected in the Joint Statement by the
  Heads of State and a strong package of documents expected to be
  signed during the visit.



  Russia and China have actively advocated establishing a new
  security and sustainable development architecture in the
  Asia-Pacific. It should be based on the principles of equality,
  respect for international law, indivisibility of security,
  non-use of force or threat of force. Today this task is becoming
  increasingly important. The forthcoming Summit of the Conference
  on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA)
  serves to contribute to addressing this task.



  CICA is a well-established cooperation mechanism. It has been
  successfully working in such spheres as security, new challenges
  and threats, economy, environmental protection and humanitarian
  issues, all of which are important for the region.



  Russia has taken an active part in CICA’s activities. In
  mid-April 2014, members of the Conference approved the Statute of
  the CICA Business Council sponsored by Russia. I am confident
  that the launch of the Council will enhance practical ties
  between business communities of the Asian countries.



  At the upcoming summit, the Secretariats of CICA and SCO are
  expected to sign a Memorandum of Understanding. That would serve
  as another step towards shaping a framework of partnerships
  between this region’s organisations and forums.


Q:China is consistently making progress
  towards the Chinese dream, i.e. a great national rebirth.
  Russia has also set a goal of restoring a powerful state. How, in
  your opinion, could our countries interact and help each other in
  fulfilling these tasks? What areas can be prioritised in this
  regard?

VP: Promotion of friendly and good-neighbourly
  partnership relations is fully consistent with the interests of
  both Russia and China. We do not have any political issues left
  which could impede the enhancement of our comprehensive
  cooperation.



  Through joint efforts, we have established a truly exemplary
  collaboration, which should become a model for major world
  powers.



  It is based on respect for the fundamental interests of each
  other and efficient work for the benefit of the peoples of our
  two countries.



  Russia and China successfully cooperate in the international
  arena and closely coordinate their steps to address international
  challenges and crises. Our positions on the main global and
  regional issues are similar or even identical.



  It is encouraging that both sides are willing to further deepen
  their cooperation. Both Moscow and Beijing are well aware that
  our countries have not exhausted their potentials. We have a way
  to go. The priority areas of collaboration at the current stage
  include the expansion of economic ties and cooperation in science
  and high-technology sector. Such pooling of capacities is very
  helpful in fulfilling the tasks of domestic development of our
  countries.


Q:Cooperation between China and Russia has
  been steadily increasing, but uncertainties in global economy
  persist. The emerging markets are faced with new challenges and
  slowdown of economic growth. How can our two countries help each
  other to counter these challenges? How can we ensure steady
  increase of mutual trade and reciprocal investments?

VP: In the context of turbulent global economy,
  the strengthening of mutually beneficial trade and economic ties,
  as well as the increase of investment flows between Russia and
  China are of paramount importance. This is not just a crucial
  element of socioeconomic development of our countries, but a
  contribution to the efforts aimed at stabilising the entire
  global market.



  Today, Russia firmly places China at the top of its foreign trade
  partners.



  In 2013, the volume of bilateral trade was close to $90 billion,
  which is far from being the limit. We will try to increase trade
  turnover to $100 billion by 2015 and up to $200 billion by 2020.



  Our countries successfully cooperate in the energy sector. We
  steadily move towards the establishment of a strategic energy
  alliance. A large?scale project worth over $60 billion is
  underway to supply China with crude oil via the Skovorodino-Mohe
  pipeline.



  The arrangements on export of Russian natural gas to China have
  been nearly finalised. Their implementation will help Russia to
  diversify pipeline routes for natural gas supply, and our Chinese
  partners to alleviate the concerns related to energy deficit and
  environmental security through the use of clean fuel.



  At the same time, we are working actively to reduce dependence of
  bilateral trade on external market conditions. Therefore, in
  order to develop trade and economic cooperation we pay particular
  attention to the breakthrough areas such as higher energy
  efficiency, environmental protection, production of drugs and
  medical equipment, developing new information technologies, as
  well as nuclear energy and outer space.



  We will implement a list of joint projects in 40 priority areas
  with total investments of about $20 billion.



  These areas include civil aircraft industry. An agreement has
  been reached on joint design of a wide-body long-range aircraft.
  In the future we will develop a heavy helicopter. I am sure that
  our companies can manufacture and supply competitive products to
  the world markets.



  We also intend to actively develop investment cooperation, the
  scope of which obviously does not meet real capacities and needs
  of our countries yet. We have examples of successful projects. I
  would like to note the participation of Chinese capital in the
  reconstruction of an airport in the Kaluga Region and building of
  plants for production of automotive parts and construction
  materials in that Russian constituent entity.



  To our mind, there are many other promising areas for
  investments. We can point to different branches of machine
  engineering, processing of agricultural products, mining
  operations, and development of transport and energy
  infrastructure.



  We must also strengthen financial cooperation and protect
  ourselves from exchange-rate fluctuations among the world's major
  currencies. Therefore, we are now considering how to increase
  mutual settlements in national currencies.


Q:Russia has recently announced the
  creation of a special economic zone in Vladivostok. What could,
  in your view, be the role of China in its creation and in the
  development of the Russian Far East as a whole?

VP: Accelerated socioeconomic development of
  Siberia and the Far East is one of Russia's key national
  priorities for the 21st century. We are now
  implementing a whole package of programmes to modernise and
  upgrade transport, energy and social infrastructure in these
  regions.



  We are aiming at the creation of special areas of advanced
  economic development with an investment-friendly environment.



  Competitive conditions for launching export-oriented enterprises
  in non-primary sectors have been created.



  In the areas of advanced development, new companies will enjoy
  some substantial benefits. These are tax holidays with respect to
  a number of taxes and reduced insurance premium rates;
  liberalisation of the customs regime, including free customs
  zones; special rules for access to land and for connecting to
  infrastructure facilities.



  Today, the relevant federal law is being finalised. Development
  institutions are being created and promising centres are being
  selected. One of them will probably be established in Vladivostok
  on Russky Island where the APEC 2012 Summit took place.



  Obviously, we are interested in Chinese businessmen making use of
  these opportunities and becoming one of the leaders here, since
  both Russia and China will benefit from an accelerated
  development of the Russian Far East.



  It is important not to limit our relations to trade. It is
  essential to establish strong technological and industrial
  alliances; attract investments to the infrastructure and energy
  sectors; to jointly promote scientific research and humanitarian
  contacts; lay a solid foundation for a sustainable long-term
  development of our trade and economic relations. And the Russian
  Far East can and must become a natural venue for the said
  efforts.


Q:How would you rate the present level of
  cooperation between our countries in the humanitarian sphere and
  its prospects? Which projects within the framework of reciprocal
  theme years (national, language, tourism, youth exchanges) have
  impressed you most?

VP: The humanitarian contacts between Russia and
  China are in keeping with the steady development of the whole
  complex of strategic partnership relations between our countries.
  At the moment, their level is as high as never before. The major
  projects of national, language and tourism theme years in which
  millions of our citizens participated, have played a significant
  role in that.



  It is noteworthy that a number of events are now being carried
  out on a regular basis. These are festivals of culture, film
  weeks, youth sports games, student festivals, camps for
  schoolchildren and students, fora for university principals,
  exhibitions of educational services and many other events.



  An intergovernmental project of the Russia-China Youth Friendly
  Exchanges Years planned for 2014–2015 was launched this March.
  The performance of the recently created Russian-Chinese
  philharmonic youth orchestra, headed by the artistic director and
  principal conductor of the Mariinsky Theatre Valery Gergiev, has
  become a highlight of the theme years’ launch in St Petersburg.



  Of course, we are not going to settle down. The mutual interest
  of youth in history, culture and traditions of the peoples of
  China and Russia is increasing. It is an objective process, and
  we are committed to fully supporting it in the future.


Q:In 2015, our countries will celebrate the
  70th anniversary of Victory over fascism. What is the impact of
  joint Russian-Chinese efforts to oppose the attempts aimed at
  challenging the results of World War II?

VP: It is true that the attempts to rewrite and
  distort history are becoming more frequent.



  Four years ago Russia and China adopted a Joint Statement on the
  65th Anniversary of Victory in the Second World War.



  We share an idea that it is unacceptable to revise the results of
  the war, as the consequences will be extremely grave.



  It is clearly evident from the tragic events currently unfolding
  in Ukraine, where violent neo-Nazis are waging a real campaign of
  terror against civilians.



  I would like to express my gratitude to our Chinese friends for
  cherishing the memory of thousands of our compatriots, who
  sacrificed their lives to liberate Northeast China from invaders.



  Next year we will hold a range of joint events to mark the
  70th anniversary of Victory both in the bilateral and
  the SCO format. During these events, youth will be in the focus
  of our work.



  We will certainly continue to oppose attempts to falsify history,
  heroize fascists and their accomplices, blacken the memory and
  reputation of heroic liberators."
