"Confirmed: Italian journalist killed in Eastern Ukraine

An Italian journalist has been killed near the Ukrainian city of Slavyansk during a mortar attack, the Italian Foreign Ministry has confirmed. The journalist was covering the ongoing conflict in the east of Ukraine ahead of the presidential elections.


  The body of the reporter has been preliminary identified as
  30-year-old photojournalist Andrea Rocchelli. The Italian citizen
  was reportedly hit along with his interpreter, Andrey Mironov, by
  mortar fire on Saturday near the village of Andreevka, a couple
  of kilometers from Slavyansk.



  Italy’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Federica Mogherini appealed
  to Ukraine’s authorities to clarify the circumstances that led to
  Rocchelli’s death in the Donetsk Region.


We ask to clarify the circumstances of the attack that
  killed an Italian citizen as soon as possible, she said in
  a statement. Mogherini intends to personally contact her
  Ukrainian counterpart Andrey Deshchytsya about the issue.



  Rocchelli’s body is now awaiting official identification from his
  family, who are due to arrive in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, on
  Sunday.



    IMAGE: ID of killed Italian journalist found with body near
    E.#Ukraine's
    #Slavyanskhttp://t.co/ot4z2jGMdRpic.twitter.com/9TPgXxVBGK
    — RT (@RT_com) May
    25, 2014


  French journalist William Roguelon, who was reportedly with
  Rocchelli at the time of the attack, told Italian press how their
  vehicle was bombarded by mortar fire.
  Before that we heard Kalashnikov shots,” Roguelon was quoted
  by the Italian tgcom24. “Then the mortar shells rained down all
  around, he said, claiming to have heard up to 60 explosions
  as they tried to hide in the “middle of a ditch.
  He told Russian news channel Vesti that when he came to after the
  explosions he saw the bodies of Rocchelli and his interpreter on
  the ground not moving. Roguelon was injured in the assault and
  was taken to a local hospital where he received treatment and was
  well enough to leave the facility on his own.



    IMAGE: ID of Russian journalist Andrey Mironov found dead in
    E.#Ukrainehttp://t.co/ot4z2jGMdRpic.twitter.com/VcgJjqNxHI
    — RT (@RT_com) May
    25, 2014

Local residents who
  found the bodies told RT’s video agency Ruptly that they found
  the remains of mortars at the scene of the attack.


  Rocchelli was a professional photographer who had worked with a
  number of Italian photography agencies as well as Wall Street
  Journal, ForeignPolicy and Novaya Gazeta, to name but a few.



  The area around Slavyansk has been gripped by violence in the run
  up to Sunday’s Ukrainian presidential elections. The
  coup-appointed government in Kiev has deployed troops in the east
  of Ukraine as part of an ‘anti-terrorist’ operation to quell
  anti-Kiev activists who have taken control of government
  buildings as a mark of protest against the Kiev authorities.


Video:
  /files/news/27/66/40/00/journ1900_480p.mp4


  A number of journalists have already fallen prey to the violence
  in eastern Ukraine. On Sunday, Russian journalists Oleg Sidyakin
  and Marat Saichenko were released after several days of detention by the Ukrainian Army.
  
  The men told Russian press that they had been kept in a dug-out
  cell with their legs and hands tied and had had their heads
  covered by sacks. The Ukrainian authorities said that the
  journalists were being investigated on charges of terrorism, and
  denied a special observer mission access to them.



    Italian journalist #Rocchelli
    died near #Slavyansk.
    He documented life of children under siege. Photo: Cesuralab
    pic.twitter.com/JWbtCAOQg4
    — Maryana Drach (@MaryanaDrach1) 
    May 25, 2014


  The crackdown of journalists in Ukraine has been condemned by a
  number of rights groups. The New York-based Committee to Protect
  Journalists has called on Kiev to “stop equating conflict
  reporting with terrorism.”
  In addition the Organization for Security and Co-operation in
  Europe (OCSE) said journalists in Ukraine are “continually
  been denied access to events and information, often by
  force” and warned that consequences will be “too grave
  to even imagine.”


  Journalists are “being directly targeted in some cases,
  Mark Sleboda, Moscow State University’s international relations
  expert, told RT.
  “This is to be expected when you are indiscriminately
  shelling civilian areas with artillery, with mortars…that of
  course is a war crime,” he said. “Russian journalists
  have been barred from entering the Ukraine despite protests of
  the OSCE and other organizations. The putsch regime is regarding
  all journalists who might provide critical information about it
  as enemies.”
  He added that the most alarming is the reaction of Western
  journalists to the detention and barring of entry of their
  professional colleagues from Russia.
  “They have been absolutely silent,” he said.



  ‘Regrettable incident, terrorist resistance to blame’ – Kiev



  The Russian Foreign Minister and his Italian counterpart Federica
  Mogherini have discussed and shared condolences of the death of
  the Italian journalist alongside his Russian colleague near
  Slavyanks on Saturday.


“Lavrov and Mogherini have called for an immediate end to
  violence in the south-east of Ukraine and called for a prompt
  halt in the 'antiterrorist operation' launched by the Kiev
  authorities there,” the FM statement reads.



  The coup-appointed Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrey Deschytsia
  also spoke on the subject with his Italian counterpart, promising
  to conduct a probe into the death of the two journalists.


“The Ukrainian foreign minister assured his Italian
  counterpart that the best experts will be involved in the
  inquiry, while Ukrainian government agencies will keep the
  Italian consular services updated about the investigation,”
  the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.



  The Ukrainian side however was quick to blame the self-defense
  forces for the incident despite witness account of the French
  journalist William Roguelon, who was in the car at the time of
  the armed assault and blamed it on Ukrainian forces.


“This regrettable incident testifies to further resistance on
  the side of the terrorist groups to the activity of journalists
  in the territory of Ukraine,” Deschytsia said.



  Meanwhile, the OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media, Dunja
  Mijatovi?, said she was “deeply saddened” about
  Rocchelli and Mironov's deaths as she expressed condolences to
  their families and colleagues.


“These deaths are horrid reminders that not enough is being
  done to protect journalists who risk their lives reporting from
  conflict zones in Ukraine,” Mijatovi? said. “I have
  raised my concern about the appalling situation regarding
  journalists’ safety in the country on numerous occasions, but it
  has continued to deteriorate, Mijatovi? said. “I call
  on the authorities to swiftly and thoroughly investigate the
  circumstances of this deadly attack and to hold those responsible
  accountable.”"
