"14 military killed in chopper downed in E. Ukraine - acting president

Fourteen Ukrainian soldiers have been killed in a helicopter crash near the city of Slavyansk in the Donetsk Region, according to the acting president of Ukraine, Aleksandr Turchinov.

Anti-government
  protesters in Slavyansk have downed a Ukrainian forces helicopter
  in the south-east of Slavyansk in the Donetsk region.


  Fourteen servicemen, including a major-general, Vladimir
  Kulchitsky, have have been killed in a helicopter crash near
  Slavyansk, according to the acting president of Ukraine,
  Aleksandr Turchinov, who spoke at a parliamentary session in
  Kiev.



  Kulchitsky, 51, was the head of the department of Combat and
  Special training in Ukraine’s National Guard.



  Meanwhile, Ukraine’s National Guard reported 12 dead: six
  servicemen, including the helicopter crew and six members of the
  Berkut forces.



  Ukraine’s army has started shelling the eastern Ukraine cities of
  Slavyansk and Kramatorsk, thereby resuming its massive military
  operation in the East of the country, local news outlets report.


“A full-scale military operation has begun in Kramatorsk and
  Slavyansk. BM-21 launch vehicle “Grad” are being used,”
  Donbas-based Ostrov agency says.


“Intensive shooting has been heard in the region, and thick
  black smoke seen,” he added.



    ÑËÀÂßÍÑÊ:ÑÁÈÒÛÉ ÌÈ-8.ÏÈËÎÒÛ ÏÎÃÈÁËÈ. pic.twitter.com/VGEP7567Wi
    — Ñòğàøíûé ÁİÍÄÅĞîâåö (@Realuran) May
    29, 2014


  One more damaged house in Slavyansk. The residents were outside
  during the attack.



    #Ñëàâÿíñê åùå îäèí ğàçğóøåííûé äîì. Âî âğåìÿ ïîïàäàíèÿ
    ñíàğÿäà æèòåëè áûëè âî äâîğå. pic.twitter.com/naprUxTTn4
    — Evgeny Poddubnyy (@epoddubny) May
    29, 2014


  Meanwhile, Itar-Tass has reported that fighter jets have been
  flying over the city of Kramatorsk in the Donetsk Region.
  “The hospitals were told to evacuate patients from the upper
  floors,” said a representative from the self-defense forces.



  On Wednesday a school and a kindergarten were shelled in
  Slavyansk. In the kindergarten at least 9 civilians were injured,
  including a 4-year old boy.



  A teacher from the targeted school said that the shell exploded
  right above the school hall, where children are usually gathered
  for festive events, and part of the roof “was simply blown away.”
  Luckily, no children were in the hall at the time. All the pupils
  and teachers were quickly evacuated to the basement."
