"US govt failed to inspect ‘high risk’ oil & gas wells

The US government has neglected to inspect thousands of oil and natural gas wells that pose a potential threat to the environment, a report has revealed. An investigation has uncovered outdated technologies still in use and lax safety regulations.


  A report by the Government Accountability Office, obtained by The
  Associated Press before its release, has shed light on multiple
  oversights in the gas and oil industry. Investigators highlighted
  that the poor oversight of the Interior Department’s Bureau of
  Land Management (BLM) was at the root of the problem.



  The body is supposed to oversee gas and oil wells across the
  United States, but this latest report revealed it has neglected
  to do so in thousands of cases, fueling fears of substantial
  environmental damage. Investigators looked at oil and gas wells
  in California, New Mexico, Louisiana, Colorado, Arkansas,
  Wyoming, West Virginia, Utah, Texas, South and North Dakota,
  Pennsylvania, Ohio and Oklahoma.



  At more than 2,100 of the 3,702 wells that had been categorized
  as “high priority,” inspections had not been carried
  out, the report revealed. A well is classified as high priority
  when there is an elevated probability of the contamination of a
  nearby water supply or other potential environmental concerns.



  In addition, by its own admission, the BLM has not modified
  regulations in line with technological advances in the oil and
  gas industry, as was required in a 2011 executive order. The BLM
  said it had not updated guidelines on oil and gas drainage since
  1999 or its guidance on mineral trespass since 2003, AP reported.



  The organization told AP that the poor oversight was down to
  limited money and staff.



  Environmental agencies expressed their concern at the report and
  said it had confirmed what they had long suspected.


This report reaffirms our concern that the government needs
  to pay attention to the environment and protect public health and
  drinking sources from the risks of oil and gas development,
  Amy Mall, of the Natural Resources Defense Council, told AP.



  The report comes as the practice of hydraulic fracturing, or
  fracking, is spreading like wildfire across the US. The process
  entails blasting fissures in rocks thousands of meters under the
  earth with water and sand to release trapped deposits of oil and
  gas.



  Environmental groups have called on the US government to
  introduce stringent regulations to govern the practice of
  fracking because of its impact on the surrounding environment.


Recent research has shown the fracking
  process contributes to elevated seismic activity. Scientists
  attending the Seismological Society of America (SSA) annual
  meeting last week said the storage of wastewater in wells deep
  below the Earth’s surface , along with fracking’s other
  processes, is changing the stress on existing fault lines, which
  could provoke more earthquakes.



  These quakes could be potentially problematic if fracking spreads
  to areas like Ohio, where the infrastructure is not geared
  towards even minor earthquakes, scientists say."
