"US starts countrywide nuclear drill after similar war games in Russia

The US Strategic Command, the agency responsible for country’s nuclear arsenal, will hold large-scale war games this week that will include 10 B-52 Stratofortresses and up to six B-2 Spirit bombers, along with other military and government agencies.


  The Boeing B-52 Stratofortress is a long-range, subsonic,
  jet-powered strategic bomber built to carry nuclear weapons.



  The Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit, also known as the Stealth
  Bomber, is an American strategic bomber, designed for penetrating
  dense anti-aircraft defenses that can drop up to sixteen 1,100 kg
  B83 nuclear bombs.



  The exercise will be conducted from May 12-16 and is set “to
  deter and detect strategic attacks against the US and its
  allies,” the Strategic Command said in a statement.


“This exercise provides unique training opportunities to
  incorporate the most current technology and techniques in support
  of our mission. Continued focus and investment in our strategic
  capabilities allow US Stratcom to deter, dissuade, and defeat
  current and future threats to the U.S. and our allies.” said
  Admiral Cecil Haney, head of Strategic Command.



  StratCom is the US’s nuclear command and is responsible for space
  operations, global strike, global missile defense; and global
  command, control, communications, computers, intelligence,
  surveillance and reconnaissance, and combating weapons of mass
  destruction.



  Though the timing of the exercise was declared as “unrelated
  to real-world events,” it does come on the heels of the
  recent war games in Russia. Announced in
  November 2013, military drills on countering nuclear strikes were
  overseen by President Vladimir Putin ahead of the May 9
  celebrations dedicated to victory in World War II



  Contrary to the openness of the Russian war games, the US
  Strategic Command released very few details about the upcoming
  exercise.



  Relations between Moscow and Washington have worsened
  significantly over the situation in Ukraine. The US continues to
  endorse and support a military operation by Kiev’s coup-installed
  government against federalization supporters in the southeast of
  the country.



  Last week, NATO said it may permanently station additional troops
  in Eastern Europe as a defensive measure against Moscow. Russia
  views this recent buildup of NATO forces as a provocation and
  counterproductive in the struggle to deescalate tensions in
  Ukraine."
