"Putin and the Mythical Empire

Western media, following the bullhorns of propaganda resident at the White House and State Department, assumes Putin is bent on re-building the Russian Empire and/or Soviet Union.


  This is assumed to be true because the “bullhorns of propaganda”
  say it’s true.



  There is never any evidence cited or even a coherent analysis
  provided to back up this claim. Needless to say, this mindless
  approach to foreign policy – if it can be called that – ends with
  car wrecks on someone else’s turf, in this case Ukraine. I submit
  a completely different and actually very simple interpretation of
  Putin’s foreign policy. It has nothing to do with an empire and
  everything to do with respect of ethnic Russians and democratic
  rights.



  Putin has no interest in rebuilding the Soviet Union. The Soviet
  Union was an incredible net economic loss for Russia and
  Russians. In this century, Russia correctly sees an empire as too
  costly, politically risky, and importantly at odds with
  international law. Since the advent of the Putin presidency, the
  Kremlin has demonstrated it will make smart trade deals with its
  immediate neighbors, but outright subsidies are to be avoided.
  (Russia’s overly generous approach toward Ukraine since 1991 is a
  partial exception – trade relations with Kiev have always been
  complicated by Russia’s important trade relationship with
  Europe).



  Putin’s ‘near abroad’ foreign policy is about people and
  principles. The day the Soviet Union came to an end, millions of
  ethnic Russians suddenly found themselves in a country that was
  not their own. Putin is addressing this painful historical wrong.
  And it is a very important domestic issue among Russians at home.



  The West likes to consider itself to be above all others due to
  its self-proclaimed superior values. This includes values of the
  right to self-determination. However, these are only often words.
  Ethnic Russians in the Baltic states frequently see themselves as
  being treated as second-class citizens within the European Union.
  They are discriminated against on the basis of language and even
  cultural values. In Georgia in 2008, they were violently
  assaulted in South Ossetia. Russia was forced to intervene
  militarily to protect lives, including those of Russian citizens
  and internationally recognized peacekeepers. In Ukraine, the same
  is happening, though on a horrific scale and supported (again) by
  the West.



  Putin’s agenda is not to change present borders. (Crimea is of
  course an exception. It should not have been “given” to
  Ukraine during the Soviet period on a whim, over the heads of the
  people there). What Putin wants is to have ethnic Russians on the
  other side of the border given the same rights of the majority
  population. This includes a say in both domestic and foreign
  policies. For example, any government in Ukraine must take into
  account the opinion of ethnic Russians when joining any military
  alliance. The US State Department should not be the entity to
  decide this along with their illegally imposed regime in Kiev.



  Putin’s approach also includes respect for the cultural values of
  Russians abroad. For the most part, Russians are culturally and
  socially conservative. This includes respect for the traditional
  family unit and reverence for the sacrifices made during the
  Great Patriot War. Many Western cultural and social values remain
  alien to many among the Russian population. Said differently:
  Russia and the West are moving further and further away from each
  other because of discernible cultural and social differences.



  The current leadership in Russia is not consumed by ideological
  determinism like in the West. Putin’s worldview is informed by
  realities found inside Russia and along its borders. Russia’s
  foreign policy in fact is status quo orientated and risk averse.
  That cannot be said about the West, particularly Washington.



  The West assaults country after country in the world in the name
  of democracy and so-called universal freedoms. This is a lofty
  mission in name only. Washington’s neo-liberal economic agenda
  has no place for values or national pride. It is a neo-colonial
  agenda to forward the greed of the few who have captured the
  political process and the West’s media echo chamber.



  Vladimir Putin disagrees. Putin’s empire is of the mind and is
  found among the people who look to him to express their values.


Peter Lavelle is host of RT's political debate program
  'CrossTalk' and monthly business program 'On the Money.' His
  views are his own and not necessarily those of his employer.

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
