"?Reform bill would require Voice of America to trumpet US policy objectives – report

Members of the US House and Senate are working together to craft legislation that would reform US-government-funded broadcasting outlets like Voice of America. The bill would require the channels to “support” US “public diplomacy” and “policy objectives.”


  Reform legislation in the House would change the
  language of Voice of America’s mission to demand adherence to US
  foreign policy directives, according to a report by Foreign
  Policy magazine, calling into question how much editorial
  independence Voice of America (VOA) will have left.


It is time for broad reforms; now more than ever, U.S.
  international broadcasts must be effective, Rep. Ed Royce
  (R-Calif.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said
  in a statement.



  The bill has been in the works among top Republicans and
  Democrats on the House Foreign Affairs and the Senate Foreign
  Relations Committees for a year, Foreign Policy wrote. The House bill, supported by Foreign
  Affairs Committee head Eliot Engel, will get a panel vote on
  Wednesday.



  Not only does the bill aim to clarify VOA’s mission – which has
  arguably leaned away from consistently backing the official line
  in Washington in recent years – but it also reorganizes the
  federal agency that oversees US-funded media outlets, the
  Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG).



  BBG will go from having part-time board members leading the
  organization – US Secretary of State John Kerry is one current
  board member – to a full-time agency official
  directing daily operations. The bill would also consolidate Radio
  Free Europe, Radio Free Asia, and the Middle East Broadcasting
  Network into one “non-federal organization,” Foreign
  Policy reported. The legislation will also attempt to cut the
  number of federal contractors that work at the outlets.


This legislation makes clear that the Voice of America
  mission is to support U.S. public diplomacy efforts, a
  summary of the new bill outlines. The VOA charter states
  that VOA will provide a ‘clear and effective presentation of the
  policies of the United States...Over time, VOA has abandoned this
  mission.


  A spokesperson for BBG would not speak on the proposal. The
  agency does not comment on pending legislation, Lynne Weil
  told Foreign Policy.



  VOA, by far the most widespread of BBG’s networks, produces news
  and cultural programming in 45 languages and reaches more than
  164 million people around the world through television, radio,
  internet, and mobile platforms.



  It began as an arm of the Office of War Information in
  1942 as a way to match Nazi and Japanese propaganda. The State
  Department and the US Information Agency took it over in the
  1950s, when it turned to counter Communist countries during the
  Cold War. VOA’s global broadcasts of American jazz music were
  popular at this time. Major live VOA broadcasts include Martin
  Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” address in 1963 and
  the 1969 moon landing, which 450 million people heard on hundreds
  of stations worldwide.



  In 1976, President Gerald Ford signed into law VOA’s mission as
  an accurate, objective, and comprehensive news outlet
  as opposed to an explicit propagandistic venture.



  Since then, “employees at the TV and radio broadcaster have
  insisted on viewing themselves as objective journalists as
  opposed to instruments” of the US government’s policies
  abroad, wrote Foreign Policy. And since, on occasion, VOA has
  highlighted stories that did not reflect well on the United
  States, US officials have wondered why hundreds of millions of
  dollars is spent on a project that does not have a more
  pro-American outlook.



  News of the reform bill comes days after the Sec. of State Kerry
  accused RT of being a state-sponsored
  “propaganda bullhorn” that is “deployed to promote
  President Putin’s fantasy about what is playing out on the
  ground” amid unrest in Ukraine. Furthermore, he said RT
  spends almost all its time “propagandizing and distorting
  what is happening, or not happening, in Ukraine.”


  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov denounced Kerry’s latest comments about RT as
  “uncivilized” and “prosecutorial.”

“[The West] was convinced for some time that it had a full
  monopoly on mass media,” said Lavrov in a statement.
  “Russia Today has won a large audience in the US and Western
  Europe, not to mention in Latin America and the Arab world."
