"'Depart immediately!' US sends 1,000 marines on assault ship to Libya

The US is sending 1,000 Marines in an amphibious assault ship to Libya's coast as a “precautionary” move should the US embassy require evacuation, a US official said. Security concerns also led the US to suggest Americans in Libya depart immediately.


  Adding to tensions, gunmen attacked the Tripoli home of Libya’s
  new prime minister, Ahmed Maiteeq, on Tuesday. Businessman
  Maiteeq, 42, and his family escaped harm, according to AFP.



  An aide to Maiteeq said there was an attack with rockets and
  small arms on the prime minister's house in Tripoli at 3:00
  a.m. (0100 GMT). Maiteeq’s guards opened fire on the attackers,
  wounding and arresting two of them, the official added.



  In reaction to the heightened strife in Libya, the USS Bataan,
  stocked with several helicopters in addition to the Marines, is
  to be in the nation’s coastal area “in a matter of
  days,” an anonymous US defense official said, according to
  AFP.



  The preemptive move is a reaction to increasingly violent militia
  battles, which could threaten the American embassy’s security,
  the official said.



  Based on escalating security concerns, the US State Department
  recommended Tuesday that Americans in Libya depart
  immediately.

Due to security concerns, the Department of State has
  limited staffing at Embassy Tripoli and is only able to offer
  very limited emergency services to US citizens in Libya,
  the travel warning said.



  The US also has 250 available Marines, seven Osprey combat
  aircraft, and three refueling aircraft in Sigonella, Italy, AFP
  reported.



  The State Department said last week that its embassy in Tripoli
  was operating as usual despite offensives launched by a dissident general, Khalifa Haftar,
  against the Libyan parliament and Islamist factions.



  Meanwhile, Mohamed Zahawi, the head of Libya’s Ansar Al-Sharia
  militant group in Benghazi, warned against any US interference in
  the nation’s ongoing tumult.



  Zahawi accused the US government of backing General Haftar, a
  new Gaddafi, and an agent of American
  intelligence.”

“We remind America, if they intervene, of their defeats in
  Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia, because they would face in Libya
  something much worse, he said in a statement on Tuesday.
  It was America who urged Haftar to turn the country towards
  war and bloodshed.


  The State Department has denied any role in Haftar’s recent offensives
  despite accusations that the US is encouraging the senior
  military official. Haftar previously spent decades in the US
  before returning to Libya in 2011 to join rebels fighting the
  regime of then-president Muammar Gaddafi.



  Following the ouster of Gaddafi in 2011, militias in a
  destabilized Libya expanded in numbers, both exploiting and
  filling in the security gap while the nation struggled with weak
  military and police forces.



  Libya's parliament remains split by rivalries, with little
  democratic reforms made since 2011. The country is now under the
  rule of its third prime minister since March, and a new
  constitution is still not ready.



  Maiteeq, who is backed by Islamists in parliament, was chosen as
  the new premier this month in a chaotic vote by the General
  National Congress. He replaced Abdullah Al-Thani, who resigned in
  April after claiming he and his family were the target of
  attacks.



  Maiteeq has invited opponents to join a comprehensive
  national dialogue to complete state institutions,” though he
  has also said he is committed to pressing the battle against
  terrorists and those who threaten the security of the
  country, a nod to eastern militants, some of whom are
  blockading oil terminals in the region."
