"‘The disgraced oligarch’: WikiLeaks cables reveal changing US views on Poroshenko

The US was among the first states to congratulate Ukraine's president-elect Petro Poroshenko. Yet real US opinions of the new president are more complicated, as revealed by WikiLeaks cables which refer to the billionaire as a “disgraced oligarch.”

For years, the US was
  keeping an eye on the Ukrainian billionaire and former foreign
  minister. Between 2006 and 2011, Poroshenko's name was a direct
  or indirect subject of hundreds of cables released by
  WikiLeaks.


  A simple search for ''Poroshenko'' on WikiLeaks' website gives at
  least 350 documents mentioning his name. But some of the
  descriptions provided by US diplomats are far from complimentary.



  Poroshenko is not new to politics, having occupied various
  prominent posts in Ukraine in the past.



  The majority of the negative characteristics were given to
  Poroshenko by US diplomats between 2006-2009 - the years he
  served as a deputy of the Verkhovna Rada and council chair of the
  National Bank of Ukraine.



  For example, in a cable dated February 16, 2006, US Ambassador to
  Ukraine John Herbst describes Poroshenko as a “disgraced
  oligarch.”

''[Former Ukrainian Foreign Minister] Konstyantyn Hryshchenko
  claimed that Poroshenko appeared to be working hard to scuttle a
  possible deal between Yushchenko and Yanukovich, because such a
  coalition would likely freeze out the disgraced oligarch. End
  summary,'' he said.



  In another cable dated May 26, 2006, deputy chief of the US
  mission in Kiev Sheila Gwaltney addressed the Department of State
  describing 'Poroshenko as “tainted by credible corruption
  allegations.”


  Then-Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko was one of the people behind
  the corruption accusations. Poroshenko was then one of Viktor
  Yushchenko’s close allies during the Orange Revolution.



  A series of US diplomatic cables shows the Poroshenko-Tymoshenko
  rivalry, revealing that he would stop at nothing in order to get
  back at Tymoshenko for accusing him of public corruption.



  Beginning with 2009 - the year Poroshenko became a Ukrainian
  foreign minister - US descriptions began to turn around, with
  personal characteristics becoming more favorable.



  In a cable dated October 9, 2009 US interim charge d’affaires to
  Ukraine James Pettit described him as a “wealthy businessman
  with broad political connections, calling for increased European
  integration and more pragmatic relations with Russia.”


  Later, cables talked about Poroshenko developing pro-Western
  views.



  US Ambassador John Tefft’s report from February 17, 2010 said
  that it was Poroshenko who recommended that then-President Viktor
  Yanukovich make his first visit to Brussels instead of Moscow.



  Poroshenko “urged the US not to read too much into language
  in Yanukovich's speeches favorable to Medvedev's [the then
  Russian president] proposal for new security architecture.”
  The note added that Poroshenko insisted “NATO membership
  remains an aspiration, albeit a distant one.”


  When asked about Poroshenko’s thoughts about the cables, the
  president-elect’s press secretary Irina Friz told Kommersant
  newspaper that “he did not read them.”


  Poroshenko already has a meeting scheduled with Barack Obama,
  after the US president expressed his readiness to meet with his
  Ukrainian counterpart while on his European tour. The meeting is
  scheduled for June 3, according to Kommersant.



  The Ukrainian leader is one of the country's richest businessmen.
  He has been dubbed the 'Chocolate King' because of the fortune he
  has made in confectionery, which is worth more than US$1.3
  billion. Poroshenko also unofficially controls Ukraine’s Channel
  5.



  Poroshenko officially won the election as he received 54.7
  percent of the votes, the country's Central Electoral Commission
  (CEC) announced Thursday.



  The president-elect's main competitor, Yulia Tymoshenko, was a
  distant second, with just 12.81 percent of the votes, according
  to exit polls.



  The inauguration ceremony for the new Ukrainian leader is
  scheduled to be held sometime between June 8-10.



  Meanwhile, Kiev intensified its military operation in the eastern
  regions of Ukraine in the run-up and following the election,
  escalating the conflict further."
