"Obama: Military to remain backbone of America’s leadership

As the United States prepares to remove its combat forces from Afghanistan after almost 13 years, President Barack Obama said Wednesday that the US military remains at the core of America’s ability to influence changes abroad.


  And while the commander-in-chief added at the Military Academy at
  West Point’s graduating ceremony Wednesday morning that the
  Pentagon reserves the power to launch unilateral attacks when
  America’s interests are directly threatened, Obama urged Congress
  during his remarks to earmark billions to assist allied nations
  combating terrorism and other major threats in lieu of relying on
  American force in those instances, as was done in Afghanistan and
  Iraq.



  Instead, Obama said, the US should lead by example within the
  international arena without creating any precedents that would
  pave the way for other nations to use established militaries or
  armed militias to further worsen tensions in the volatile regions
  where the US is observing from abroad.



  The address — delivered to roughly 1,000 graduating students from
  the military school’s class of 2014 — was presented as a
  launching pad for the president to tout his plans concerning
  foreign policy as the White House finds itself on the sidelines
  of several international crises at the same time that America’s
  longest-war ever prepares to finally be put to rest.


“You are the first class to graduate since 9/11 who may not
  be sent into combat in Iraq or Afghanistan,” Obama said
  early on in his address Wednesday.



  Nevertheless, the president added, removing combat forces from
  war-torn nations abroad is no excuse to ease back on the US
  military’s own abilities as tensions escalate elsewhere.



  Now more than a decade after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
  Obama said, “the world is changing with accelerating
  speed” as “technology and globalization has put power
  once reserved for states in the hands of the individual, raising
  the capacity of terrorists to do harm.”

“It will be your generation’s task to respond to this new
  world,” Pres. Obama told class of 2014. “The question we
  face – the question you will face – is not whether America will
  lead, but how we will lead, not just to secure our peace and
  prosperity, but also to extend peace and prosperity around the
  globe. “


  To accomplish as much, he added, the US must reserve its ability
  to use military force, even unilaterally, “when our people
  are threatened; when our livelihood is at stake; or when the
  security of our allies is in danger.”

“On the other hand, when issues of global concern that do not
  pose a direct threat to the United States are at stake – when
  crises arise that stir our conscience or push the world in a more
  dangerous direction – then the threshold for military action must
  be higher,” he continued. “In such circumstances, we
  should not go it alone. Instead, we must mobilize allies and
  partners to take collective action. We must broaden our tools to
  include diplomacy and development; sanctions and isolation;
  appeals to international law and – if just, necessary, and
  effective – multilateral military action. “


  With regards to what the US can accomplish without exercising its
  military might, the president called on Congress during
  Wednesday’s address to agree on a plan that would reserve
  billions of dollars in taxpayer money towards helping
  counterterrorism programs abroad


“I am calling on Congress to support a new Counter-Terrorism
  Partnerships Fund of up to $5 billion, which will allow us to
  train, build capacity, and facilitate partner countries on the
  front lines,” he said at West Point. “These resources
  will give us flexibility to fulfill different missions, including
  training security forces in Yemen who have gone on the offensive
  against Al-Qaeda; supporting a multinational force to keep the
  peace in Somalia; working with European allies to train a
  functioning security force and border patrol in Libya; and
  facilitating French operations in Mali.”


  Additionally, Obama also said he will work with Congress to ramp
  up support for Syrian opposition fighters up against embattled
  President Bashar Al-Assad, and will step up efforts in
  neighboring countries, including Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and
  Iraq, to provide American assistance. Those remarks came the same
  morning that US Secretary of State John Kerry told CNN’s New Day
  program that 92 percent of Assad’s chemical weapons have been
  removed nearly nine months after his regime was blamed for a
  deadly gas strike in the city of Damascus.



  Elsewhere during Wednesday’s address, the president reiterated
  points he made during a highly touted national security addresses
  presented nearly one year earlier at a Washington, DC military
  school in which he called for a major change in the way the US
  conducts terrorism operations. One year to the week after Pres.
  Obama announced intended changes to the US drone program and the
  detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, he again this week
  announced plans to reform both.



  This administration will “be transparent about both the basis
  for our actions and the manner in which they are carried out –
  whether it is drone strikes, or training partners,” Obama
  said Wednesday morning.“But, when we cannot explain our
  efforts clearly and publicly, we face terrorist propaganda and
  international suspicion; we erode legitimacy with our partners
  and our people; and we reduce accountability in our own
  government.”

Here’s my bottom line: America must always lead on the world
  stage, he said elsewhere during his address. If we
  don’t, no one else will. The military that you have joined is,
  and always will be, the backbone of that leadership.

“I believe in American exceptionalism with every fiber of my
  being. But what makes us exceptional is not our ability to flout
  international norms and the rule of law; it’s our willingness to
  affirm them through our actions,” he added. “That’s why
  I will continue to push to close [Guantanamo Bay] – because
  American values and legal traditions don’t permit the indefinite
  detention of people beyond our borders.”


  Moments earlier, Obama referenced by name the armed drone
  missions that have put US unmanned vehicles in Somalia and Yemen,
  but did not mention by name other countries, including Pakistan,
  where the Central Intelligence Agency maintains a covert and
  controversial drone program yet to be acknowledged by the White
  House."
