"Russia & China: ‘No to sanctions rhetoric, regime change in other countries’

Moscow and Beijing have rejected the imposition of sanctions as political tools and condemned attempts at “encouraging and financing” regime changes in other countries in a joint statement released during President Putin’s official visit to China.


  Having faced economic sanctions and threats of more of to come
  from the West, Russia has turned to the East, seeking to boost
  business ties in a friendlier environment. An impressive package
  of deals on energy, business and infrastructure has already been
  signed in Shanghai.
  
  More is yet to come, judging by the title of the joint statement
  by Beijing and Moscow, which promises “a new stage in
  full-scale partnership and strategic relations.”
  
  Boosting mutual trade is not all there is to that “new
  stage,” as following the meeting with Xi, the Russian
  president shared expectations of closer cooperation between the
  countries in international politics.
  
  “We have common priorities on a global and on a regional
  scale,” Putin said. “We’ve agreed upon closer
  coordination of our foreign policy steps, including those in the
  UN, BRICS and APEC,” he added.



  Among attitudes Russia and China share is their mutual dislike of
  economic restrictions imposed for political reasons.
  
  “The parties stress the necessity to… reject unilateral
  sanctions rhetoric,” the joint statement reads.
  
  Economic restrictions applied as punishment are no better than
  financial aid to forces that seek “a change in constitutional
  system of another country,” the Russian-Chinese statement
  says.
  
  Moscow still feels bitter about the role it believes the US
  played in the Ukrainian coup. Russia has accused Washington of investing $5 billion in the
  regime change in Kiev.
  
  A number of European politicians, meanwhile, acknowledged the EU might have been pressing
  Ukraine too hard to sign the integration deal which, according to
  German Vice-Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel, could have created
  “the impression in Ukraine that it had to decide between
  Russia and the EU.



  The ongoing political crisis in Ukraine can only be resolved
  peacefully, Putin and Xi Jinping believe, calling on political
  opponents in Ukraine to switch from confrontation to dialogue.
  
  The sides urged all Ukrainian regions and public and
  political groups to enter in broad nationwide talks, develop
  jointly a concept of further constitutional development of the
  country, envisaging full observation of universally recognized
  rights and freedoms of people, the statement reads.



  News rules for cyberspace



  Russia and China have called for creation of new “universal
  rules of behavior in information space,” citing concerns
  over some of communication technologies “running contrary to
  international stability and security, damaging countries’
  sovereignty and violating personal privacy.”
  
  The ‘rules for internet’ comment comes amid scandal with US and
  China trading accusations of online espionage.
  
  On Monday, a grand jury in the United States indicted five Chinese military - allegedly
  officers of an elite cyber squad - with hacking into American
  computer networks and stealing sensitive business information
  from US companies.
  
  China dismissed all US accusations and published proof
  that Washington is actually stealing data from China. The Chinese
  Foreign Ministry also summoned the American ambassador to China
  for an explanation, urging him to drop all charges against
  China’s military officers."
