"Iraq’s first election since US pullout marked by death over political optimism

Any manifestation of democracy in Iraq was inevitably accompanied by bloodletting, as parliamentary elections closed on Wednesday. The day marked the first polls since US withdrawal amid unrelenting sectarian violence.


  The turnout was predictably low, with only 30 percent out of the
  22 million eligible attending, according to senior election
  commission member, Muqdad al-Shuraifi, in the final four hours of
  the poll.



  In the current situation, even a successful attempt to bring
  people out to vote is no guarantee of quick results. The country
  is as fragmented politically as it is on the battlefield. Based
  on recent experience, even if voting demonstrates the success of
  democracy, a working coalition will take a great deal of time to
  establish. It took nine months to agree after the last election
  in 2010. That was when the United States was still around.



  Iraqis were voting to elect a 328-seat parliament, with more than
  9,000 candidates vying for spots, as the incumbent prime minister
  of eight years, Nouri al-Maliki will seek a third term. He was
  among the first to cast his vote today in the Green Zone, where
  the government is based. Addressing his nation, he was quoted by
  reporters as saying, “I call upon the Iraqi people to head in
  large numbers to the ballot boxes to send a message of deterrence
  and a slap to the face of terrorism.”


  Today, in central Baghdad, security was ramped up, with voter
  searches performed before anyone was allowed inside polling
  stations. Police blocks and barbed wire line the capital’s
  streets. However, the day did not pass without violent incident
  and explosions scattered the country.



  While the seemingly futile attempts at political order are made,
  chaos and disorder reign across the country. Voting in parts of
  the west has been canceled due to increased violence. In
  Fallujah, Sunni anti-government sentiment is marked by popular
  calls to rise up, showing just how difficult an inclusive
  political process is at this time.



  Iraq’s security forces have not been successful after months of
  trying to take areas like the province of Anbar from the clutches
  of armed extremists. It has become a focal point of Sunni
  discontent.



  Attacks have been taking place with a steady regularity -
  especially on electoral officials. Wednesday afternoon saw two
  roadside bombs go off in the north of the country, killing two
  staff from the electoral commission, further wounding two
  security officers, according to an army general. The attack took
  place to the north-west of the ethnically-mixed city of Kirkuk.
  Another two electoral stations were attacked with RPGs on the
  outskirts of Baghdad, as well as one in Mosul, 400km north of the
  capital - killing one. The total death toll from the Wednesday
  attacks stands at 11 at the time of publication.



  A string of attacks took 24 lives across the country on Tuesday
  as well – the worst was a double bombing that killed 17 people in
  an outdoor market just outside Baghdad, in which most of the
  victims belonged to the Kurdish minority.



  This follows Monday’s carnage, which claimed a further 50 in a
  wave of suicide attacks by militants disguised as security force
  members. Most of these targeted election campaigns.



  2014 saw the deadliest April since 2008, and 4,000 lives have
  been lost since the start of this year alone, as the Shia
  government forces of al-Maliki engage a Sunni opposition. More
  than 400,000 have been displaced.



  Al-Maliki’s party rose to prominence in 2006, just as violence
  started to really spiral out of control, with Sunni and Shia
  militants constantly striking each other’s populations. His party
  is expected to win the most seats on Wednesday, but is still
  unlikely to take a majority.


“Our victory is confirmed,” Reuters quoted him as
  saying, “but we are still talking about how big this victory
  will be.” This victory will depend on the PM’s ability to
  get a coalition together, and given the criticism he has received
  from nearly all ethnic and political denominations in the
  country, that is unlikely to happen, even amid an atmosphere of
  Al-Qaeda-inspired violence by groups like The Islamic State of
  Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), which puts him in a unique position
  to be cast in the role of the defender of Shiites against
  extremist Sunni elements.



  Despite the elections offering hope of a way forward, “the
  fear is that it’ll only fan the flames of discontent. The prime
  minster has been accused of being too authoritarian… of making
  sectarian divisions worse, instead of better,” RT’s Lucy
  Kafanov reports. “But the opposition is too fractured to
  mount a serious challenge.”


  Since the violence of 2006, and up until 2008, the situation had
  somewhat calmed down, as the Americans reigned in the Sunni
  opposition, using their help to fight the more extreme, terrorist
  elements. But the Sunni-Shia animosity has since come back worse
  than ever, as Sunni Iraqis are complaining against discrimination
  by the government. That is aside from the already existing
  criticism of corruption and failures on all fronts, from
  infrastructure to health to education and the economy.



  These are not only the first democratic elections since the US
  military pullout – they’re also the fourth since former leader
  Saddam Hussein’s ouster in 2003. It is becoming clear to some
  that any chances of stability, political or otherwise, have
  actually decreased since the time the start of the American
  occupation.


“If Iraq had gone through this transition to a perfect
  peaceful united government, they would still be faced with a
  very, very difficult legacy of complete destruction of the
  country’s infrastructure, the toxic legacy of depleted uranium
  and things like that. And there’s the psychological trauma of the
  whole population that was bombarded by the US military,”
  Iraq war veteran Mike Prysner told RT.


“Their lives are still dominated by the violence of
  war,” Prysner said.



  Political scientist, Iraq War veteran and former US Marine Jake
  Diliberto believes this vote is not an indication of change, but
  a barely useful attempt to path up a sectarian hole that’s been
  left by the American occupation.


“Political elections going on in Iraq is going to bring two
  possible problems and two possible very good events: the first
  and biggest problem is sectarian tensions; the other problem is
  that Al-Qaeda could demonstrate itself as a powerful force by
  bombing election cycles, putting fear and intimidation into
  communities,” which could lead many to boycott the elections
  out of fear, Diliberto believes.



  He sees the continuing spiral of brutality and government
  powerlessness as arising out of a combination of two things:
  “because of long-term traditional problems within the
  sectarian communities and because of the US inability to bring
  political results post-2003 invasion.”"
