"Protesters in eastern Ukraine see Kiev govt as a ‘gang of oligarchs’

The Ukrainian government in Kiev has lost control of vast parts of its own country, with the east moving further and further apart, investigative journalist Manuel Ochsenreiter told RT, warning that a real civil war is possible.

RT:We’ve heard repeated calls from Russia
  and the West for there to be nationwide dialogue from Kiev, but
  given what has happened today, another administrative building
  has been taken over by protesters, how likely do you think it is
  that protesters will actually be willing to negotiate or
  talk?

Manuel Ochsenreiter: It’s very much unlikely
  that the protesters in eastern and southern Ukraine would talk on
  the same level with the putsch government in Kiev, because we
  have to realize that in the eyes of those protesters, the
  government in Kiev is a sort of gang of oligarchs, of organized
  crime, of terrorists, and of course hooligans, and when we see
  who is right now governing in Kiev, they are not so wrong. So who
  can expect or who can blame those people that they are not
  willing to talk with that government and that they want to take
  the fate of their people, the self determination of the Russians
  there, to take it in their own hands.


RT:So do we have a stalemate here? How do
  you see things playing out?

MO: We see now the violence has become more, but
  we also saw that the Kiev government doesn’t have control of its
  own country. The Ukrainian state, what we saw now on the map,
  when we put the map on the table, is not existing anymore; it is
  a failed state, an empty entity, which is in the west governed by
  a putsch gang of people who were imposed by the West, by NATO, as
  well as the European Union. Not with the support of their people
  but with the support of foreign powers, with the support of the
  West, while the people in the east and in the south are spreading
  away from Kiev and they want to merge with Russia in any form. So
  if there is no opportunity for that, that both parts of Ukraine
  can talk with each other and that they will find a solution that
  pleases both sides, there will be much more violence and it can
  be very likely that a real civil war might break out. And this
  would not be not a civil war like in Syria, far away from Europe.
  This would be a civil war inside Europe.


RT:The protesters in east Ukraine are
  saying they want to hold a referendum. They want to do it before
  the election at the end of this month. Presumably, this is not
  advisable. How do you see best to deal with this issue of the
  referendum?

MO: When you ask me if this is advisable, it
  depends on who you ask. First of all, it is not the West, it is
  not Brussels, and it is not Washington. It is not Berlin, it is
  not Paris, and it is not London, who decides what is advisable
  for the eastern Ukrainians. If they want to hold a referendum and
  they want to give themselves a decision where to go, the fate of
  the future, they should do that. It is always the wrong image
  that we have that people should ask in Washington or in Brussels
  if they are allowed to do a thing like a referendum. We had that
  already with Crimea, when the West was protesting, but thank God
  we have to say that we enter now a new period of history, where a
  geopolitical earthquake takes place and we see that we don’t have
  anymore the situation that the term “international community” is
  a camouflage word for the West. The international community means
  there are multiple levels; there are a lot of states. And of
  course, if they want to do a referendum and they want to do a
  decision, it is also important what Moscow says...it is important
  what China says, what the BRICS states are saying. It is not just
  anymore important what NATO is saying and what Washington is
  saying. And that is why this is a very good development.


RT:But there is a big difference between
  the referendum that took place in Crimea, and just geographically
  speaking, the one that will take place in eastern Ukraine. There
  are two very different problems, but presumably the one in east
  Ukraine could be a lot worse in terms of what could happen, what
  the consequences could be.

MO: Absolutely. The situation of the referendum
  is very much different. In Crimea it was very calm, almost like a
  typical election day somewhere in a little sleepy European city.
  But what we expect now, of course, in eastern Ukraine is
  something else. And we will see there a lot of violence, we will
  see there maybe bomb attacks. We know that there are terrorists
  working for the Kiev government. I mean we have the Right Sector
  group, which is nothing else than a hooligan and a terrorist
  group. There are people of the Right Sector fighting with
  Chechnya’s Islamists against Russia. They were fighting in the
  Georgian war in 2008. So we have to expect of course when we look
  at the borderline that it is very easy to infiltrate eastern
  Ukraine. Much more easy to infiltrate eastern Ukraine from Kiev
  than it was to infiltrate, for example, Crimea. Of course the
  situation is different, but at the end of the day it is still a
  referendum. And maybe somebody can tell me a more basic
  democratic act than a referendum, when the people have the right
  to show their voice for what they want to do in the future.


RT:Just last night, we saw military drills
  taking place in Kiev. The Kiev authorities deny they had anything
  to do with this. What is your interpretation of what went
  on?

MO: The Kiev government, if we can call that a
  government, they have two problems. Problem number one: they lost
  complete control of vast areas of their own country, what I said
  [before], that the country just exists on the map. And on the
  other side, they are working with many dirty tricks because they
  desperately want to have military and economic support of the
  West, mainly NATO and the EU. For any provocation they do, they
  want to provoke the Russians to show military action. We know
  that Poland is very much putting fuel into that fire, the Baltic
  states as well. They are already promising Ukraine their support.
  So there is something going on and of course the Kiev government
  is desperately trying to get that support.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
