"Anti-govt protesters seize TV station in eastern Ukraine, call for own channel

Pro-Russian protesters have seized a local state TV station in the city of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, demanding that Russian TV channels be broadcast there. They also want to launch a “Donetsk People’s Republic” TV channel.


  According to media reports, technical work is currently being
  done at the TV station to restart the transmission of Russian
  channels. Itar-Tass reports that some Russian TV channels have
  resumed work in Donetsk.


“Their experts are now setting up equipment on our frequency
  to broadcast Russian TV channels,” TV station CEO Oleg
  Dzholos told Ukraine’s Channel 5, Interfax-Ukraine reported.



  One of the protesters has told the news agency that “Russia 24”
  channel is already broadcasting instead of local “Channel 27”.



  Protesters have left the building, but still left their security
  there.


“Nobody freed the TV station – protesters left, but there is
  our security there as well as our technicians and the station’s
  crew,” an unnamed man told Interfax-Ukraine.



  It has also been reported that pro-Russian protesters held talks
  with the TV center's executives to begin broadcasting the
  “Donetsk People's Republic” television channel.


“There were many demands. First – switch off Ukrainian
  channels. I explained that we are Donetsk state TV and radio
  station and from our central control room, there is only our
  signal. There were experts and they understood me. The following
  demand was – not a demand, an ultimatum – to switch on, if I am
  not mistaken, Russia-24 TV channel,” Dzholos said.



  So far, all Ukrainian TV channels continue their broadcast.



  Protesters entered the TV station late Sunday afternoon, saying
  they were unsatisfied with the way the situation in the region
  was covered in local news and shows. Protesters demanded that
  Ukrainian channels be blocked.



  They have taken down the Ukrainian flag from the TV station’s
  office and hoisted the flag of the self-proclaimed Donetsk
  People’s Republic. It was also taken down later.



  Protesters brought satellite antennas and other equipment and
  placed guards at the entrance to the television center, Itar-Tass
  reported.



  Prior to taking control of the TV station, over 3,000 people
  gathered at Donetsk's central Lenin Square. Protesters started
  the rally with one minute's silence to commemorate Berkut Special
  Forces officers killed in clashes with radicals in Kiev's
  Independence Square, and activists killed by Right Sector
  radicals at a checkpoint in Slavyansk on Easter Sunday.



  Russian TV channels have been blocked across Ukraine since the
  beginning of March, after the Ukrainian media watchdog claimed
  that shutting down Russian TV stations ensured the country’s
  “national security and sovereignty.”


  At least five major Russian channels, including Vesti, Russia-24,
  Channel One’s international broadcasts, RTR ‘Planeta’ and NTV
  World were immediately excluded from the list of options by
  providers throughout Ukraine.



  The move was strongly condemned by the OSCE, which called the move “repressive” and “a
  form of censorship.”


  Since then, the situation in Donetsk has deteriorated, with
  people demanding a referendum on the region’s autonomy from Kiev.
  Amid massive protests, when a number of government building were
  stormed and seized by anti-government activists, Kiev launched an
  “anti-terrorist” military operation targeting rallying civilians."
