"China to ditch US consulting firms over suspected espionage

State-owned Chinese companies will cease to work with US consulting companies like McKinsey and Boston Consulting Group over fears they are spying on behalf of the US government.


  US consulting companies McKinsey, BCG, Bain & Company, and
  Strategy&, formerly Booz & Co., will all be snubbed by
  state-owned Chinese companies, the Financial Times reported,
  citing sources close to senior Chinese leaders.


“The top leadership has proposed setting up a team of Chinese
  domestic consultants who are particularly focused on information
  systems in order to seize back this power from the foreign
  companies,” a senior policy adviser to the Chinese
  leadership was quoted by the FT as saying.


“Right now the foreigners use their consulting companies to
  find out everything they want about our state companies,”
  the adviser said.



  McKinsey is the largest global consulting group operating in
  China, and about one-third of clients are state-owned
  enterprises. McKinsey has 650 employees in China.



  Last Thursday China announced that all foreign companies would
  have to undergo a new security test. Any company, product or
  service that fails will be banned from China. The inspection will
  be conducted across all sectors - communications, finance, and
  energy.



  China has already banned Microsoft's Windows 8 operating system
  from government computers, according to Chinese state media
  agency Xinhua.


“Under President Xi Jinping, technology and implementation
  will look to be converging, so foreign tech firms should be very
  worried about their prospects,” Bill Bishop, an independent
  consultant based in Beijing, told the FT.



  Chinese officials have said that government ministries,
  companies, universities, and telecoms networks are victims of US
  hacking, and will try to avoid using US technology in order to
  protect “public interest”.



  The dictate follows the US Justice Department’s indictment of five Chinese military officers
  it suspects of committing cyber crimes against a number of major
  US companies, including US Steel, Westinghouse and Alcoa. The US
  accused the army officers of stealing trade secrets and even
  published their photos.



  Beijing responded by calling the US a ‘robber playing cop’, and
  more recently said the US is a “mincing rascal” and involved in
  “high-level hooliganism”.



  The US-China fallout came after revelations made by NSA
  contractor Edward Snowden that the US uses economic cyber
  espionage to spy on international competitors, including China.



  The dispute is only the latest setback in relations between the
  world’s two largest economies. Issues like Ukraine, Syria, and
  North Korea have been divisive topics between the two
  superpowers."
