"When energy starved India meets oil rich Russia

As India and Russia try to diversify their energy focus – India as importer and Russia as exporter – both nations are at an interesting confluence with India’s energy need growing exponentially.


  Russia is looking beyond Europe towards Asian markets for its
  energy export – the recent Western-Russian standoff is fueling
  this drive.



  It’s a point where the insatiable energy demands of India meet
  the available energy reserve of Russia, especially those based on
  oil and nuclear technology.



  India, ranked the world’s third largest oil importer behind the
  US and China, after an import of about 3.8 million barrels of
  crude oil per day in 2013-14. The International Energy
  Agency (IEA) says it will become world’s largest oil
  importer by 2020.



  Most of India’s imports are from the Middle East, especially
  Iran. Due to the vulnerabilities and the unsteady conditions in
  the region, India is looking at multiplying its sources of energy
  import.


“India is trying to reduce its dependence on the volatile
  Middle East for its energy needs amounting currently to 76
  percent and projected to grow to 85-90 percent whilst Russia is
  trying to diversify its export outlets, partly to open new
  markets in the Asia-Pacific region and also to neutralize the
  impact of sanctions on its global trade,” says international
  oil economist, Dr Mamdouh G. Salameh, oil and energy consultant
  to the World Bank, Washington DC and a technical expert with
  UNIDO who are headquartered in Vienna.



  Excessive oil import is impacting India’s current account deficit
  accounting for more than half of India’s $191 billion trade deficit in 2013-14.



  The country is looking at reducing its import dependence through
  collaboration with investors in various streams of the oil and
  gas industry.



  Turning the gaze towards Asia



  Investment opportunities in Indian oil and gas fields are huge:
  only $16 billion has been invested in the last 15 years in a country
  which ranks as the world’s 15th-largest in oil and gas reserves,
  according to the Boston Consulting Group. India has also evolved as the world’s fifth largest economy
  in refining capacity, with a share of 3 percent of global
  capacity. As Russia impresses on the West its capability to
  exploit multiple trade options in case of harsher sanctions,
  India will certainly be a viable choice. As Dr Salameh says:
  “Essentially Russia is seeking leverage over the West by
  demonstrating that it has other export markets besides Europe for
  its oil and natural gas exports, should Brussels impose too
  strictly sanctions against Moscow.”


  European demands might stagnate soon, whilst growing Asian energy
  needs remain untapped. This gives Russia stronger reasons to
  reposition its focus. “Russia is in the process of
  reorienting its energy posture to Asia owing to the growth in
  energy demand in that region, coupled with the likely stagnation
  or decline of demand in Europe over the next few decades,”
  according to Dr Salameh.



  The joint plan to construct a $30 billion oil pipeline through China’s
  restive Xinjiang province is a significant step towards this. If
  successful, the pipeline will be the most expensive in the world.


“Russian major energy companies would be very interested to
  invest in India’s oil and gas development as well as in nuclear
  energy. But Russia is equally interested in Indian investments in
  its energy sector,” Dr Salameh believes.
  
  India has already made huge investments in Russian hydrocarbons
  and is involved in the joint exploration and extraction of oil
  and gas.



    As of 2011, Indian investment in Russia is about $6.5 billion,
    primarily in the energy sector, with $2.8 billion in the
    Sakhalin-1 project, having acquired a 20 percent share in the
    venture and purchase of Imperial Energy, a London-listed oil
    major in Russia’s Tomsk region.
  


  A comprehensive free trade agreement is also being negotiated in
  an attempt to boost commerce to some $20 billion by 2015.



  India may invest around $1.5 billion in the Russian Yamal
  peninsula, which has one-fifth of global natural gas reserves.
  India has also proposed an exploration venture with Russian oil
  and gas majors (Gazprom and Rosneft) and sought a stake in the
  Sakhalin-III oil and gas project in the Far East, apart from
  proposing a joint venture to work on gas liquefaction projects in
  Russian offshore fields for shipment to India.



  Nuclear prospect



  In the long run, India plans to slice its dependence on imported
  coal, oil and natural gas, and generate energy through nuclear
  power.



  Currently accounting for less than 3 percent of the
  country’s total energy generation, India expects to reach 20,000
  MW in nuclear capacity by 2020 and 63,000 MW by 2032, while
  ultimately supplying 25 percent of electricity from nuclear power
  by 2050. This expansion plan requires an increased supply of
  nuclear fuel and reactor technologies.



  As India opened up its nuclear market in 2008, after
  the Indo–US bilateral trade agreement and acceptance into the
  Nuclear Suppliers’ Group (NSG), international collaborators have
  been eyeing the vast opportunity of supplying nuclear technology
  to India.



  Experts believe India will install nuclear reactors
  worth up to $150 billion in the coming decades. Apart from
  Russia, other frontrunners for the possible trade are the US, Canada and France.



  However, it is Russia that has grabbed the largest chunk with the
  nuclear civilian agreement signed in 2009 for the transfer of latest
  reactor technologies and unhindered supplies of uranium fuel to
  India.



  Why Russia?



  There are a number of strategic reasons why India chose Russia.
  Experts in New Delhi believe an over dependence on the US for
  nuclear energy might lead to interference and dominance by the
  latter. Some Indian scientists are believed to have opposed the
  Indo-US nuclear deal, fearing it might lead to US
  dominance in India’s nuclear power plants.



  Russia, on the contrary, has always been viewed as a much more reliable strategic partner, unlike the US and its
  allies, who many feel offer more conditional relationships.



  Another reason is India’s belief in creating a more multi-polar world
  by giving prominence to strategic coalitions like the BRICS
  nations where Russia is a key player.


“India’s policy-makers are trying to promote energy
  cooperation based on political understanding,” says Dr
  Salameh.
  
  Finally, the time tested ties that go back to the Soviet era when
  the two countries signed a nuclear cooperation deal in 1988. This was
  further updated a decade later in 2002 with newer agreements such
  as the construction of nuclear reactors by Russia at Kudankulam,
  in Southern India.



  The first reactor at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power
  Plant project (KKNPP) is on line now, with Kudankulam 2 underway
  and agreements for a third and fourth recently signed.



  Russia also signed a roadmap agreement with India in 2010
  providing for sixteen nuclear power units over the next fifteen
  years. Russia's state-owned nuclear company, Rosatom State
  Nuclear Energy Corporation, is committed to build six reactors by
  2017.



  However there are a number of obstacles in the way. Indian
  liability laws are seen to be one of the sternest in
  the world deterring the entry of global suppliers. The general
  apprehension is that in case of an accident, irrespective of the
  causes, the investing foreign entity will be taken to task and
  held responsible.



  However, the Indian side feels this is a misinterpretation and
  that the question of who is liable is determined only after the
  role of the supplier in a potential accident is proven. The
  impact of this was seen during the signing of agreements for the
  KKNPP 3 and 4 projects. As per India’s Civil Liability for
  Nuclear Damage Act (CLNDA), the construction
  company should bear the responsibility of financial liability in
  case of potential accidents for the entire term of use of the
  plant (even after it is built and transferred to India).



  This ambiguous situation was not acceptable to Russia which delayed signing
  the agreement for about 12 months until a compromise was arrived
  at this year, where India agreed to raise the cost of the nuclear
  power plant inclusive of safety funds.



  Additionally, there is a lot of political opposition against the
  use of nuclear power to fulfill India’s energy needs. Arvind
  Kejriwal, leader of the new and influential Aam Aadmi
  Party, has voiced his opposition to nuclear power plants due to the
  ‘enormous’ destruction potential in case of an accident.



  “There is a very strong and influential constituency that lobbies
  against the use of nuclear energy. India also has complicated the
  efforts of foreign investors to invest in India's nuclear
  sector,” says Michael Kugelman, senior program associate for
  South and Southeast Asia at the Woodrow Wilson Centre.



  Even in oil and gas, the collaboration is not very easy. Many
  international firms have stayed away from entering due to
  unfavorable taxes, regulations and domestic price controls.



  As Kugelman reiterates, “The investment climate in India,
  despite the country's economic successes, remains very
  challenging for foreign companies. Corruption, red tape,
  bureaucracy, and a very strong state presence make investors
  hesitant to come to India.”


  Recently the Asian Development Bank indicated energy pricing as the core
  problem in India. Oil prices are government-controlled and
  do not fully reflect the procurement prices serving as
  disincentives for energy efficiency efforts.
  
  As India is slated for a new government in May, many are hoping
  for some drastic steps if the Bharatya Janata Party led by
  Narendra Modi
  comes to power. There are indications of opening up the energy
  sector for private players as well as loosening control on the
  pricing of natural gas, diesel and electricity. However, how much
  of these will see the light of the day remains to be seen.


Jhinuk Cchowdhury for
  RT"
