"Ukraine’s far-right leader moves HQ to the east, forms new squadron

Ukrainian radical neo-fascist Right Sector group has moved its main headquarters from Kiev to Dnepropetrovsk to “closely monitor” the developments in the east, its leader said, announcing the formation of yet another paramilitary squadron in Ukraine.

“I moved my headquarters to Dnepropetrovsk. The purpose is to
  prevent the spread of the Kremlin infection,” Ukrainian
  presidential candidate and Right Sector leader Dmitry Yarosh
  announced at a press conference in Dnepropetrovsk.



  He says the vital industrial city in Ukraine, Dnepropetrovsk
  provides a better platform to observe the situation in Donbass
  where pro-federalization protests are flourishing, after the coup
  in Kiev.



  Yarosh, placed by Russia on an international most wanted
  terrorist list, also announced that he started forming a special
  squad of fighters called “Donbass.”


“We coordinate all of our actions with the leadership of the
  National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of
  Internal Affairs and Security service of Ukraine,” Yarosh
  said.



  Local media reports that the unit will comprise about 800
  fighters. Any military trained adults could volunteer to join the
  unit, as long as they meet the requirements.



  The move follows a similar announcement in Dnepropetrovsk region,
  whose Kiev-appointed governor and oligarch Igor Kolomoysky
  recently formed a special battalion “Dnepr” formed of
  “local patriots of Ukraine.”


  Both battalions are part of the special force which is being
  formed to stabilize and take the situation under control in the
  eastern and southern parts of Ukraine, as announced earlier by
  Ukraine’s coup-installed millionaire turned Interior minister
  Arsen Avakov.


“The new structure of special divisions of the Ministry of
  Internal Affairs is the answer to saboteurs, ‘green little men’
  and to the other gangs tasked with attacking statehood and
  integrity of Ukraine,” Avakov said earlier in April, stating
  his ministry was ready to employ and legalize as many as 12,000 volunteers across the country.



  On Wednesday, in an exclusive interview to RT, Russia Foreign
  Minister Sergey Lavrov, once again reiterated the worrying
  expansion of the Right Sector. He sees the existence and the
  expansion of the neo-Nazi group as a violation of last week's
  Geneva accords.


“In Geneva we agreed that there must be total rejection of
  extremists and the Right Sector is still very active, and after
  Geneva the Right Sector staged provocations killing several
  people in the vicinity of Slavyansk during Easter Sunday. So
  nothing which was agreed in Geneva and which certainly is for the
  authorities in Kiev to start implementing was done by them,”
  Lavrov said.



  In response to Yarosh's announcement, the mayor of Slovyansk
  Vyacheslav Ponomarev told Gazeta that formation of such a
  battalion “could lead to a fratricidal war.”


  The leader of the Ukrainian radical group, Right Sector Dmitry
  Yarosh, was placed on an international wanted list in March and charged with inciting
  terrorism.



  Yarosh, who leads the far-right militant Right Sector group, has
  always been anti-Russian in his statements, calling for the
  destruction and division of the “Moscow Empire” and
  openly supporting Chechen militants and Georgian aggression.
  Yarosh believes that Russia is Ukraine’s “eternal foe”
  and that a war between the two countries is
  “inevitable.”


  The Right Sector was formed in November 2013 soon after the
  anti-government protests in Ukraine began. Members of the radical
  movement were very active in the violent events which led to the
  ouster of President Viktor Yanukovich.



  The group has been referred to as the most active, the most
  radical and the best organized group in the Ukrainian unrest.
  Many of its violent acts have been well-documented by media and
  in videos posted on YouTube."
