"American who joined Syrian rebels becomes first known US suicide bomber

Social media posts by an Al-Qaeda affiliate claim a man named Abu Hurayra Al-Amriki (Abu Hurayra the American) blew himself up in an attack in Syria. US officials say he is the first-known American suicide bomber in the civil-war besieged country.


  On Sunday, four men from the Al-Nusra Front, a jihadist
  organization aligned with Al-Qaeda, carried out suicide bombings
  on army positions in Idlib province, AFP reported. Dozens were
  killed or wounded, though exact numbers of casualties are still
  unknown.



  Abu Sulayman al Muhajir, one of the top sharia officials in the
  Al-Nusra Front, according to The Long War Journal, tweeted about
  the involvement of an American man in the coordinated suicide
  attacks on Tuesday.



    Abu Hurayra Al-Amriki Performed a martydom operation in Idlib,
    Jabal Al-Arba'een. May Allah accept him pic.twitter.com/MeewywKqDD
    — ??? ?????? ??????? (@abusulayman321) 
    May 27, 2014


  A Sunday tweet from Al-Nusra’s Twitter feed appears to show the
  same man - a light-skinned Caucasian - sitting with three other
  men and wearing a bomb vest.



    See our take on the original photo (pic.twitter.com/F55d89TofK) of 4
    #Idlib
    bombers here: http://t.co/fvjF0GBrcw#Syria
    — Syria Direct (@SyriaDirect) May
    28, 2014


  According to Google Translate, the original Al-Nusra tweet translates to #
  _ Front victory in cooperation with the # Hawks _ Sham performs
  four martyrdom operations in Mount _ # # forty Idlib.


  US law enforcement and counterterrorism officials confirmed the
  suicide bombing to NBC News and said they have identified the
  American, but would not release his identity or hometown.



  Syrian rebel sources based in London told NBC News that other
  jihadi tweets suggest the American was of Palestinian descent.



  Any identity can't be confirmed until remains are recovered or
  examined, a US law enforcement official told CNN. But the size of
  the blast, which contained 17 tons of explosives, would make
  finding remains for identification difficult.



  An anti-government activist near the bombing site confirmed the
  attack to the New York Times via Skype. He also said he had seen
  the American previously, but had no interaction with him. “I
  know he was an American, had an American passport and that he was
  with the Nusra Front,” the activist identified only as Ahmed
  told the 
  Times.



  Al-Nusra Front and other Islamic extremist groups in Syria have
  been trying to identify, recruit and train Westerners (especially
  Americans) to carry out attacks when they return home from
  fighting in the Syrian civil war, according to senior American
  intelligence and counterterrorism officials.


“There will come a time when those fighters are going to flow
  out, they're going to come back to Europe and to the United
  States -- and those of us who remember history remember the
  flowing out of Afghanistan in the 1980s by the fathers of al
  Qaeda. You can draw a line between that and 9/11,” FBI
  Director James Comey told 
  ABC News in an interview last Monday. “We are not going
  to allow a line to be drawn from this coming Syria diaspora to a
  future 9/11.


  Laith Alkhouri, an 
  NBC News counterterrorism analyst, warned that the social
  media, including videos of the attack like the one below, will be
  used to recruit more jihadists. “There is no doubt [the
  American’s] image and action will be used in future propaganda
  material,”he said.



  Last Thursday, the Justice Department asked Stephen Ponticello, a
  top prosecutor in its National Security Division, to lead US
  efforts aimed at stemming the flow of foreign fighters to
  war-torn Syria, ABC News reported. Most Americans have joined the
  rebels battling President Bashar al-Assad.



  Syria was plunged into civil war in 2011 when peaceful uprisings
  against Assad descended into violence. More than 150,000 people
  have been killed and millions more have been displaced in the
  three years since fighting began. The rebels are made up of a
  very loose coalition of opposition groups, some of whom - like
  Al-Nusra Front - have openly affiliated with Al-Qaeda."
