"‘Double-headed eagle looks in both directions’: Russia has enough gas for both East and West - PM Medvedev

As Moscow and Beijing finalize a historic deal that may be worth some $456 billion in Russian gas over the next 30 years, Russia keeps looking both East and West, and is not forgetting about its European customers, PM Dmitry Medvedev told Bloomberg TV.

“These were not the easiest talks,” Medvedev said. He
  assured the public that the wording of the agreement “will be
  finalized very soon,” in time to be signed during Russian
  President Vladimir Putin's state visit to China.


“One side always wants to sell for a higher price, while the
  other wants to buy for a lower price,” Medvedev said. “I
  believe that in the long run the price will be fair and totally
  comparable to the price of European supplies.”


  Moscow is actively pursuing two routes of developing its supply
  lines – the Eastern route and the Western route, the Russian PM
  said, emphasizing that China is a very important trade partner.


“We cannot supply our gas to the European market alone,
  because we have enough for the Asian market too, which is the
  most rapidly developing market, including China, the largest
  economy.”


  Medvedev said that Russia's move to increase energy cooperation
  with China is in no way tied to EU threats to diversify its gas
  supply and move away from the bloc's energy dependency on Russia.


“First, each country or group of countries, including the
  European Union, has the right to diversify their supply sources.
  This is true. But we don’t attach much importance to this simply
  because, so far, there is no viable alternative in sight to
  Russian supplies,” Medvedev said.



  Russia, as a “major energy-supplying power” will use the
  opportunity to deliver gas not only to Europe, but also to Asia.
  “I wouldn’t look for politics behind this, but I have no
  doubt that supplying energy to the Asia Pacific Region holds out
  a great promise in future.”


  Yet at the same time, Medvedev said that in the worst case
  scenario, gas that would not be sold to Europe may go to Asia.


“But even if we look at the worst prospect – purely
  theoretically – any undelivered European gas supplies can be sent
  to China by the eastern route. But that, let me stress this point
  again, is so far an absolutely theoretical possibility.”


  Medvedev also urged the West not to politicize Russia's desire to
  develop cooperation with Asia, saying that Moscow wants to trade
  with both West and the East, recalling that the eagle on the
  Russian coat of arms looks in both directions.


“The idea of any politically motivated scenario is simply
  conjecture. The fact is, we want to trade in both the west and
  the east. Do you remember what the Russian coat of arms looks
  like? The eagle is looking in both directions,” Medvedev
  said.



  As for the possibility of Russian oil giant Rosneft selling a
  19.5 percent stake minus one share to Chinese companies, Medvedev
  says it is up to the company to decide.


“We are trying to make our energy market stable. Eventually,
  Rosneft should decide for itself what development sources to use.
  If Chinese investors make an interesting proposal, we don’t rule
  anything out. In any case, the government is planning a
  privatization of a considerable amount of Rosneft stock.”


  When answering the question of the possibility of opening Russian
  markets to foreign investment, Medvedev said that the authorities
  are always trying to analyze the impact of the opening of certain
  sectors, and that there are special commissions that deal with
  it.


“I think we have the right to keep some sectors under
  government control, but the number of such sectors keeps
  decreasing, and the commission I have mentioned takes decisions
  to expand the opportunities for foreign investment at almost
  every meeting.”


  Russian President Vladimir Putin visits Shanghai on May 20-21.
  Gazprom and the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) are
  due to sign a historic deal for 38 billion cubic meters of
  natural gas to power China's growing economy, starting in 2018.



  Ahead of his visit, Putin, in an interview to Chinese media outlets, said that the
  two states “steadily move towards the establishment of a
  strategic energy alliance.”"
