"Sanctions 'sharp knife' to business in Europe and America – Medvedev

Economic sanctions against Russia will only bring the world closer to another Cold War, which is counterproductive and most of all hurts business in Europe and America, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said in an interview with Bloomberg TV.

“Let’s be honest, the sanctions are a sharp knife; European
  business and American business don’t need them either. The only
  ones who want sanctions are politicians,” the Prime Minister
  said in the interview aired May 20.


“Basically we are slowly but surely approaching a second Cold
  War that nobody needs,” Medvedev said, as he says Russia
  prefers not to politicize trade and economic sanctions.



  The Prime Minister said the degeneration of US-Russia relations
  were reminiscent of Soviet times during the Cuban missile crisis
  of Afghanistan war. The US launched sanctions against Russian
  politicians, which only further exacerbated diplomatic relations.


“You know to put it simply no one is happy about sanctions
  since they are always a sign of tense relations. We do not
  support sanctions. Moreover, you may have noticed that we have
  not commented on them a great deal or responded to them harshly,
  although we probably could cause some unpleasantness with the
  countries that are imposing those sanctions, but it’s bad for
  international economic relations, relations with Europe and the
  United States. It’s just bad,” Medvedev said.



  The US and the EU have tightened sanctions against Russia, but
  Moscow maintains they are an outdated practice that will only
  backfire and hurt business and industry on all sides.


“The sanctions have not had a significant effect on us. That
  doesn’t mean that we are happy about them. Again, sanctions are a
  dead-end, and, in fact, everyone understands this - everyone,
  including businesses in Europe and America, said Medvedev.



  The US expanded its sanctions on April 28, which were shortly
  followed by a copy-paste EU version. All together, the sanctions
  target dozens of Russian politicians deemed critical in reuniting
  Crimea with Russia, 6 businessmen believed to be close to Putin’s
  inner circle, 3 banks and 17 companies.



  Retaliatory sanctions



  Moscow doesn’t rule out a set of counter sanctions to protect the
  Russian economy.


Of course, there is a plan of action depending on how the
  situation will develop, Medvedev said.



  Retaliatory measures would be reciprocal and similar to those of
  the West.


If we talk of a worst case scenario, despite the fact that
  we object to any sanctions, our package of retaliatory measures
  not only includes the measures towards a gradual improvement of
  the situation in our economy, but also measures that might target
  certain states,” the Prime Minister said.



  Medvedev, who himself was responsible for the so-called reset
  between the US and Russia, said that he was disappointed in
  President Obama’s politics and that he could have acted with more
  political finesse.


“Once a new administration comes to power in the United
  States and a new president takes office after Obama, these
  sanctions will be forgotten. In the end, nobody stands to
  win,” Medvedev said.



  In the same interview Prime Minister Medvedev discussed the landmark gas deal due to be signed on Tuesday
  by Gazprom CEO Aleksey Miller and his CNPC counterpart Zhou
  Jiping in Shanghai."
