"'Complete disregard for moral integrity': China lambasts US spying tactics

China has labeled the US take on cyber-spying a “complete disregard for moral integrity” and has accused the country of taking advantage of its geopolitical hegemony to spy on others, a Chinese report by an internet information body stated on Tuesday.


  Beijing said that US methods involved broad-scale attacks against
  the Chinese government.


“America's spying operations have gone far beyond the legal
  rationale of ‘anti-terrorism’ and have exposed the ugly face of
  its pursuit of self-interest in complete disregard for moral
  integrity,” concluded the research published by the China
  Academy of Cyber Space.


“As a superpower, the United States takes advantage of its
  political, economic, military and technological hegemony to
  unscrupulously monitor other countries, including its
  allies,” the report added.


‘America’s Global Surveillance Record’ was released one
  week after the US accused five Chinese military officers of
  hacking US computer systems.



  The US Justice Department took the unprecedented move of
  publishing, together with a 48-page indictment, the photographs
  of the five.



  A subsequent editorial in the Global Times, a subsidiary of the
  People’s Daily, the official journal of China’s Communist Party,
  was packed with insults aimed at Washington on May 21.



  China announced last Thursday that it would be investigating
  providers of important IT products and services following the
  row.


“We should encourage organizations and individuals whose
  rights have been infringed to stand up and sue Washington,”
  the newspaper said.


‘America’s Global Surveillance Record’ accused the US of
  specifically targeting China.


“Targets of American surveillance include the Chinese
  government and Chinese leaders, Chinese companies, scientific
  research institutes, ordinary netizens, and a large number of
  cell phone users,” the report said, saying that among NSA
  targets were the Ministry of Foreign affairs and Huawei
  Technologies Co.


“US spying operations penetrate every corner of China,”
  it said. The report referenced foreign newspaper reports of US
  online surveillance, which have been revealed little-by-little by
  documents from former National Security Agency contractor Edward
  Snowden.



  Additionally on Tuesday, China announced that it was reviewing
  its domestic banks’ dependence on International Business Machines
  Corp. (IBM), according to Bloomberg sources.



  The People’s Bank of China and the Ministry of Finance were among
  those requesting banks remove the servers and trial a local
  brand. The four sources requested to be kept anonymous, as the
  review was not considered public."
