"Staggering figures: Half of all US adults hacked in last 12 months

Online computer hackers have infiltrated and exposed the personal information of 110 million Americans – nearly half of the US adult population - over the last year alone, according to an alarming new report.

The study - formulated
  by researchers at the Ponemon Institute, which measures data
  collection and information security in the public and private
  sectors – also determined that the number of hacked accounts
  belonging to those individuals numbered at or near 432
  million.


  Many of the people victimized may have inadvertently made
  available to hackers their names, debit or credit card
  information, email addresses, phone numbers, birth dates,
  passwords, security questions, and possibly their physical home
  addresses, according to CNN Money, which commissioned the study.



  The news that so many people have been hacked comes on the heels
  of a series of vast security flubs at popular companies like
  Target and eBay. Target was the victim of a malware attack that
  compromised no less than 40 million credit card numbers (along
  with 70 million addresses, phone numbers, and other identifying
  materials) through the height of the holiday shopping season.



  Snapchat admitted that five million user accounts were hacked,
  and 33 million Adobe users' credentials were also taken (along
  with more than three million stolen debit and credit card
  details).



  “Most companies don’t fully understand or address their
  security risks,” the 2014 US State of Cybercrime Survey
  explained. A mere 38 percent of the companies polled are capable
  of prioritizing security spending based on the risk it presents
  to businesses and customers. The survey added that “most US
  organizations’ cybersecurity capabilities do not rival the
  persistence and technological skills of their cyber
  adversaries.”



  The situation is complicated even further because the very
  companies that so many Americans unconsciously rely on refuse to
  disclose how many customers were actually hacked. AOL, while
  admitting that a hack had taken place, has said only that a
  “significant number” of its 120 million accounts were taken over.
  Online giant eBay was similarly cagey when it was revealed that
  hackers had taken data from all 145 million of the site’s users.



  So many internet users have found themselves hacked in part
  because the attackers have specialized their methods of attack,
  whether it be deploying malware against Target or covertly
  installing a flaw onto Internet Explorer that allows them to
  monitor an entire computer.



  “It’s becoming more acute,” Larry Ponemon, head of the
  research institute, told CNN Money. “If you’re not a data
  breach victim, you’re not paying attention.”



  The report attributed the vast data loss on a number of issues,
  perhaps the most notable of which being a widespread hesitation
  in the corporate world to be proactive. Executives, managers, and
  even tech specialists often dismiss the immediacy of a threat
  before it falls on their company.



  Blame can also be pitted on individuals, however, with many
  people failing to be diligent enough in changing their passwords,
  or using security questions that are easy for others to guess.
  Such failings make it possible for friends and loved ones to hack
  the people they are close to, according to Paul Norse of Security
  Center USA.



  “These are generally done internally,” he told First Coast
  News. “So from our aspect as a consumer the only real
  thing that we can do is monitor our accounts closely and alert
  the proper authority. On the other side it’s really the
  business’s end to protect our information, and a firm part that
  we need to do as Americans is holding these people
  accountable.”"
