"Ukraine's final gas plea: Lower prices, then we pay debt

Friday is Kiev’s last change to transfer $2 billion to Gazprom or risk a gas war with Moscow and a halt to gas deliveries not only to Ukraine but Europe. European customers get about 50 percent of  Russian gas via Ukraine.


  By June 7, Ukraine’s total debt for supplied gas will be $5.2
  billion if it continues to avoid payments, state-owned Gazprom
  CEO Aleksey Miller said Wednesday in a meeting with Russian
  President Vladimir Putin and other government advisers.


 There is not much time left. The next consultations are
  scheduled for Friday in Berlin. Mr. Novak [Russia's Energy
  Minister] and I will take part in these trilateral talks with the
  European Commission and the heads of Ukraine’s energy sector and
  Naftogaz Ukraina, said Miller.



  Earlier on Thursday, Prime Minster Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Ukraine
  will either agree on a lower price that “reflects market
  conditions” or continue moving forward with the lawsuit
  against Gazprom at the International Court of Arbitration in
  Stockholm.


“If we agree in this issue, we will pay all of our debts in
  the course the next ten days,” Yatsenyuk said in an
  interview with the German newspaper Bild, published Thursday.



  In May Ukraine used 3.5 billion cubic meters of Russian gas
  costing $1.7 billion, Miller said Wednesday in his meeting with President
  Putin.



  The matter will not be discussed until tomorrow’s trilateral
  energy meeting between Russia, Ukraine, and the EU in Berlin, a
  source close to the proceedings told RIA Novosti said on
  Thursday.


There will be no official information [about Ukraine's
  decision] today. Possibly, [the announcement will be made] after
  a meeting on Friday, the source said, as quoted by RIA
  Novosti.



  Russia said it will only consider lowering the price of gas to
  Kiev if it begins paying off its gas debts.



    Tomorrow #Ukrainian#Naftogaz
    must pay 2 bilion USD to #Gazprom,
    energybill last winter. Then Russia wants new talks. http://t.co/ay6KcokkuT
    — Simon Trommel (@TrommelTweets) 
    May 29, 2014

Following Moscow’s
  suggestion, the EU proposed Ukraine begin repaying its debt to
  Russia using some of the $3.2 billion from its first IMF loan
  which it received earlier this month.


  The first $2 billion tranche is part of an agreement brokered by the European Commission
  that would help resolve the conflict. Naftogaz, Ukraine’s state
  oil and gas company could transfer $2 billion by May 30 and
  another $500 million by June 7, which will cover unpaid gas bills
  from November to April.



  Russia’s Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak said that Russia will
  only move forward with talks as long as Kiev pays the first part
  of its debt by Friday.



  On Wednesday, Ukrainian Energy Minister Yury Prodan reiterated
  Kiev is ready to pay Russia as long as Gazprom lowers its current
  rate of $485 per 1,000 cubic meters down to $268.50 per 1,000
  cubic meters, a rate it enjoyed under a discount for the first
  three months of 2014.


The price of Russian gas to Ukraine doubled for only one
  reason - Ukraine made its own choice in favor of a free state,
  having signed the agreement with the EU, Yatsenyuk said in
  an interview.



  Ukraine and Naftogaz haven’t paid their gas bills in full since
  July 2013, Putin said at this year’s St. Petersburg Economic
  Forum.



  Europe sources about one third of its energy supply from Russia,
  50 percent of which flows through Ukraine. Any disruption will
  not only affect the country hosting the pipeline, but much of
  Europe as well."
