"'For US, the only purpose of NATO is burden sharing'

The US needed to minimize military spending costs, so NATO’s purpose in Syria, Libya and Iraq was to get EU states to contribute to the US military program, Professor of Economics at the University of Missouri, Michael Hudson, told RT.

RT:Germany has very close economic ties to
  Russia, but it's coming under huge American pressure to act. But
  if Berlin brings about sanctions, won't they simple shoot
  themselves in the foot?

Michael Hudson: Obviously there are two
  different views within Germany, because of the close links they
  don’t want to do anything that is going to disturb the
  relationship with Russia. But there has been a large confusion
  over what just NATO is about and about what the German
  contribution to NATO is about. NATO for the last 30 years has not
  been about defending Europe. Obviously nobody thinks there is
  going to be any invasion of Europe from anyone – not from Cuba,
  Russia or Brazil. The purpose of NATO from the American point of
  view was burden sharing. Since the 1960s and 1970s military
  spending has been the single major cause of the US balance and
  payment deficits. So within Congress and within the Pentagon
  there was a discussion on how we are going to minimize the
  balance and payment costs of our military spending in Asia,
  Europe and the Near East. The answer was burden sharing. And the
  purpose of involving NATO in Syria, Libya and Iraq, which have
  nothing to do with North Atlantic at all, is basically to get
  Germany and France and other European countries to contribute to
  the American military program.



  This is a tension felt in Germany, France and other countries
  now, but especially on the German Die Linke party and some of the
  social democrats who say “Why should we, Europeans, be taxed
  to pay for the American military program and strategy when we
  don’t have really any voice in forming it?” They are saying
  “no taxation without representation” virtually, they are
  saying “Why should we, Europeans, be taxed for NATO’s tax
  gathering program.” They fund the American military not only
  in the Near East but now also adventures in Ukraine that is very
  much against the European tradition. The European arguments in
  the press are “We want to support the elected
  governments” but the Obama Administration says “Well,
  we’ll redefine democracy. Democracy is not an elected government,
  it is not an elected government in Libya, in Iraq and Ukraine.
  Democracy is a country that appoints leaders who the American
  government will approve off and who will agree to impose
  neo-liberal policies.”

RT:White House press secretary Jay Carney
  admitted that the sanctions will impact the global economy as
  well as hurt Russia. Only a few years after the global economic
  crisis, how wise is it to upset the economy again? Won’t it be
  very harmful for states like Germany that has strong economic
  ties with Russia?

MH: The Germans are very clear they are not
  going to pursue sanctions that hurt German industry. That would
  be the straw that breaks the camel’s back. And there is some
  discussion in Germany whether they do really want to remain part
  of NATO. If they don’t really have a voice in it, do they really
  need to sacrifice German industry so that American industry moves
  in and takes over the markets that German industry has. This is
  an American market grabbing opportunity from Germany, and you can
  be sure that within Merkel’s only Christian-Democratic party
  there is a big argument over whether Germany should make a
  sacrifice of its industry for American industry just because
  America says so.


RT:Will John Kerry's seeming attempt to
  shift some of the blame for what's happening in Ukraine onto the
  EU impact the talks?

MH: I don’t think the Europeans pay more
  attention to John Kerry than the Americans do. He is basically
  making these speeches for the American electorate, not to the
  Europeans to pay attention. Kerry is a new sort of Tony Blair.



  He [Kerry] is trying to frame the situation but again, not many
  people are paying attention. Most people say “What is
  actually the stake? War is basically financial today?” And
  you could say “Wars are financed by other means” or
  “Finances war by other means” and then they realize that
  all this juggling over Ukraine is basically financial, not only
  between the West and Russia but between America and Europe. And
  all this can do is spur a pullback on the part of Europe, saying
  “Wait a minute, we are pushing for our own interests, not for
  American national interests.” Again, what it is doing is
  dividing NATO and making Europeans ask “Is there any real
  reason for NATO anymore?”

RT:What are the possible consequences of
  the sanctions against Russia, what do you think?

MH: One consequence will be within Russia
  itself. It will realize the need that it must be much more
  self-sufficient and it will have to reduce its dependency on the
  West and develop much more industrialization. Russia under the
  World Trade Organization rules is able to sue the US in the
  International court. And I believe as I have already said that it
  can soon recover from any damages. And it would be able to
  recover from these damages by moving against American investments
  in Russia. So the ramifications could be on America itself. It
  cannot be good for the foreign investors in Russia, and what
  Russia can also do is decide to pursue a tax policy that will tax
  resource rent, mineral rent, land rent and most of the rent that
  is now being used to generate income, to pay dividends to foreign
  stockholders. Russia has a very wide range of policies that it
  can do to resist the sanctions, to be more self-sufficient and
  basically the effects will not be positive for the US, they will
  be the exact opposite of what the US is trying to bring about,
  which is more Russian dependency on the West.


RT:Edward Snowden revealed the US had been
  spying on Europe, including Merkel herself, for years. In fact,
  the Chancellor even had her request to see her file rejected. Is
  she really prepared to sweep this under the carpet, and for
  what?

MH: Absolutely not. Merkel is from East Germany
  and they grew up under the Stasi listening to them all the time.
  And anyone who grew up in East Germany was so traumatized by the
  tapping of the phones, by the constant surveillance, that this is
  not something they can get out of the system. All this was
  sudden, like her eyes were open, saying “The Americans are
  acting like the new Stasi.” This is everything that she has
  spent her life fighting against and that was a shock to the
  system that has led her to doubt in everything the US is doing.
  She doesn’t want to come out and contradict the President of the
  United States on her visit here but it makes her very worried
  about any kind of demands that the US will make on her. And it is
  beholden on her to back and support German industry and German
  tax payers against the demands that Obama is making that Germany
  fund NATO for much more and helping the American producers to
  outcompete German producers and take the markets away from
  Germany.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
