"Trans-Atlantic global leadership at stake in Ukraine – Kerry

NATO must return to its original goal of fending off Russia, seizing the chance presented by the Ukrainian crisis to sever Europe from Moscow and move it closer to America, the US secretary of state said. Or else the bloc’s global leadership may be lost.


  John Kerry delivered the confrontational call in a speech to the
  Atlantic Council think tank in Washington, DC. He said the
  stand-off in Ukraine had resulted from a “uniquely
  personally-driven set of choices” and is “a wake-up
  call” for NATO. He added that now the military bloc must
  turn the page on two decades of focusing on expeditionary
  operations and take a stand against “Putin’s Russia.”

“After two decades of focusing primarily on our expeditionary
  missions, the crisis in Ukraine now call us back to the work that
  this alliance was originally created to perform,” Kerry told
  the audience.



  NATO’s original purpose was to oppose the Communist Soviet Union,
  giving the West the military backbone to the ideologically-driven
  stand-off with the East. Kerry described it as “to defend
  alliance territory and advance trans-Atlantic security.”

“Today, Putin’s Russia is playing by a different set of
  rules,” the secretary stated. “Through its occupation of
  Crimea and its subsequent destabilization of eastern Ukraine,
  Russia seeks to change the security landscape of Eastern and
  Central Europe.”

“Together we have to push back against those who try to
  change sovereign border by force. Together we have to support
  those who simply want to live as we do,” he added.



  Kerry didn’t mention NATO’s own operations against Yugoslavia,
  which helped change sovereign borders in Europe. But he said NATO
  must not allow the situation continue to develop as it is,
  because Russia is challenging the position NATO members held
  since the end of the Cold War.


“Our entire model of global leadership is at stake. If we
  stand together, if we draw strength from the example of the past
  and refuse to be complacent in the present, then I am confident
  that NATO, the planet’s strongest alliance, can meet the
  challenges, can absolutely take advantage of the opportunities
  that are presented by crisis,” he stressed.



  Kerry suggested three points on how trans-Atlantic partners can
  preserve their leadership and contain Russia. He said all NATO
  members must comply with alliance’s benchmark of 2 percent GDP
  defense spending, which is not observed by many European members
  of the alliance, including European economic powerhouse Germany.


“Clearly, not all allies are going to meet the NATO benchmark
  of 2 percent of GDP overnight or even next year,” Kerry
  said. “But it’s time for allies, who are below that level to
  make credible commitments to increase their spending on defense
  over the next five years.”


  NATO members must also help Europe reduce its dependence on
  Russian energy and develop economic ties with America by speeding
  down the pipeline the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment
  Partnership Agreement, Kerry said.



  The agreement would certainly give more access to European
  markets to some US corporations, as it would require freeing up
  European regulations on things like fracking, GMOs, copyright and
  finance.



  Kerry’s policy remarks are in line with those made recently by
  some other members of the US political establishment. For example
  Senator John McCain, one of the most vocal critics of Russia,
  went on the same lines of presenting Russia’s stance on Ukraine a
  personal choice by President Vladimir Putin and calling for more
  defense spending in Europe in his speech at Vilnius University,
  Lithuania, on Wednesday last week.


“Considering what President Putin is doing right now in
  Ukraine, it is more important than ever for every NATO ally to
  spend at least 2 percent of its GDP on defense,” McCain
  said. “I'm pleased that Lithuania has pledged and is planning
  to do this, and the sooner you follow through on that commitment
  the better.”


  The US and Russia have been trading accusations of meddling with
  Ukrainian crisis lately. Washington says Moscow is sowing dissent
  in eastern Ukraine, fanning up anti-government protests there.
  Russia says the US sponsored the February coup in Kiev, which
  brought into power the current Ukrainian central authorities and
  has been playing a dominant role in defining the policies of the
  new government."
