"Russian journalists released, flown from Kiev to Russia

Two Russian journalists working for LifeNews agency, detained by Kiev forces for almost a week, have been released and flown to Russia, according to the head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov.

“Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko are free! The plane
  carrying them set a course from Kiev for Grozny!” Kadyrov
  wrote in his Instagram along with a photo of the journalists
  aboard the aircraft.



  The plane was waiting in Kiev ready to pick up the journalists
  and depart at a moment’s notice for over 4 days. The existence of
  that aircraft, chartered by the Chechen leader, was kept secret
  for the journalists’ safety, LifeNews reports.



  The journalists will take some rest in Grozny, the Chechen leader
  said, and will fly to Moscow on Sunday to finally meet their
  relatives and friends after a weeklong detention.



  The freed journalists thanked Putin and everyone, who helped get
  them out of detention. “Today is the happiest, one of the
  happiest days of our lives,says Sidyakin in the short
  clip.


  Two Russian journalists working for LifeNews TV channel -
  reporter Oleg Sidyakin
  and cameraman Marat Saichenko - were captured by Kiev forces on
  May 18 near the eastern city of Kramatorsk.


  For almost a week the detained journalists were being
  investigated on charges of “aiding the terrorist
  groups,” according to Kiev authorities, who refused to share
  any details of their whereabouts and denied a special observation
  mission to visit the detained Russian journalists.



  The accusations of illegally transporting weapons and aiding
  terrorism against Russian journalists are “nonsense and
  delirium,” President Putin said earlier calling the situation
  “unacceptable” and warning that Kiev’s crackdown on
  reporters working in Ukraine will affect Moscow’s relations with
  the “new Ukrainian authorities.”


  As the country prepares to hold early presidential elections
  following the February coup, a range of Russian news journalists
  from different outlets, including RT’s Spanish and Arabic news
  crews, accredited to cover the upcoming vote, were denied entry to the country without explanation.



  The deterioration of the media climate in Ukraine was condemned by a number of NGOs and rights groups,
  including the New York based Committee to Protect Journalists
  that called on Kiev authorities to “stop equating conflict
  reporting with terrorism.”


  Meanwhile the latest OSCE report stated that journalists are
  “continually been denied access to events and information,
  often by force” and warned that consequences, if the trend
  is not reversed, will be “too grave to even imagine.”


  In the latest surge of violence, just hours before Ukrainians are
  set to go to the polls, a French photographer was wounded near
  the city of Slavyansk, while his Italian colleague and his
  interpreter are believed to be dead after they got caught in
  mortar shelling amid what the Kiev
  authorities call an “anti-terrorist operation” in
  turbulent eastern Ukraine."
