"'Vote at gunpoint,' anyone? US keen to legitimize 'good' election in Ukraine

A team of American lawmakers is in Ukraine to observe the presidential election which Washington has called a historic milestone and provided over US$ 11.4 million to support the vote despite ongoing violence in eastern Ukraine.


  US senators Rob Portman
  (R-Ohio) and Benjamin Cardin (D-Maryland)arrived in Ukraine’s capital Kiev as
  a part of the American monitoring mission. The US team is led by
  former Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright.


    President Obama: I congratulate the people of #Ukraine
    for making their voices heard by voting in their presidential
    election. #UkraineVotes
    — Department of State (@StateDept) May
    25, 2014

Throughout the last few months, the Ukrainian people have
  repeatedly demonstrated their desire to choose their leaders
  without interference and to live in a democracy where they can
  determine their own future free of violence and
  intimidation,the
  US president said in a statement.This election is another
  important step forward in the efforts of the Ukrainian government
  to unify the country and reach out to all of its citizens to
  ensure their concerns are addressed and aspirations
  met.


  Ahead on Sunday’s voting, Maryland Democratic Senator Benjamin
  Cardin emphasized Washington’s backing for the vote.


“Our main reason for participating is to express our support
  for the Ukrainian people,” Cardin told a news conference in
  Kiev. The American lawmaker added that they were
  “particularly concerned about the impact from Russia”
  and would “obviously be watching closely what happens
  tomorrow.”



  Speaking with MSNBC Saturday, Cardin also suggested that
  “they would see record numbers coming out to vote”.



  Ohio’s Republican Robert Portman told MSNBC he thought the
  election would be “good,” admitting though that voter
  turnout in two eastern Ukrainian regions might not be as high as
  they “hoped for.”



  The US was pushing for the elections in Ukraine – no matter what,
  violence or no violence in the country, RT’s Gayane Chichakyan
  noted.



  Previously - under different circumstances - American officials
  could say how unacceptable voting at gunpoint is.



  “That is not something that can be done with the barrel of a
  gun pointed at you,” President Obama and said earlier this
  year, at a meeting with Ukraine’s acting Prime Minister Arseniy
  Yatsenyuk.



  Kiev has unleashed the army against those in the east of Ukraine
  who don’t want to be under its control.



  Amid fire from Ukrainian army helicopters, and unarmed civilians
  shot dead as they tried to stop the army assault – Washington
  presents the elections in Ukraine as no problem.



  “Ukraine is ready for the election,” Marie Harf, deputy
  spokesperson at the State Department told a press briefing on
  Friday.



  “Across the vast majority of Ukraine, things are calm,”
  Jen Psaki, the State Department’s spokesperson claimed earlier.



  It was calm in the port city of Odessa on May 2, before pro-Kiev
  activists chased their opponents into a building, the Trade
  Unions House and set it on fire, killing over 40 people and
  injuring dozens more. To this day, no one has been held
  responsible.



  Similarly, no one was held responsible for the violence on the
  streets of Kiev in February which resulted in a coup that ousted
  President Viktor Yanukovich and propelled to power those whom the
  US wanted to see.



  “It was absolutely vital for the political establishment in
  the US to legitimize the government that was installed by the
  Maidan coup in February because then they can say ‘Oh, look!
  These people were democratically elected.’ Because until now they
  haven’t been democratically elected: they came to power through
  force,” Nebojsa Malic, a columnist at antiwar.com told RT.



  Thousands of international observers have been sent to Ukraine to
  observe the elections.



  The OSCE sent its monitors to nine regions “according to a
  plan,” Richard Solash, a representative of the mission told
  Itar-Tass. However, no observers were present in Donetsk and
  Lugansk – the regions in eastern Ukraine that have been in the
  epicenter of anti-Kiev protests. Ahead of the voting day, four
  members of the OSCE team visited Donetsk to see what the
  situation was like, following which it was decided not to
  allocate observers to the region as well as to neighboring
  Lugansk.



    OSCE parliamentarians observing at polling stations in #Odessa
    , #Ukraine#UkraineVotes
    #UkraineElectionspic.twitter.com/oylbeaKXWZ
    — OSCE PA (@oscepa) May
    25, 2014


  The Ukrainian Interior Minister had admitted earlier that it
  would not be possible to hold elections in a number of districts
  in both Lugansk and Donetsk regions.



  “We are fully aware…that it will no longer be possible to
  hold in a normal way elections on the vast territory of Donesk
  and Lugansk regions,” Arsen Avakov told a media conference.



  That does not change anything for the coup-imposed government in
  Kiev who amended the election bill to remove the minimum turnout
  requirement.



  Meanwhile, violent confrontation between Kiev and its opponents
  continued on election day, with shooting being reported in the
  Lugansk region. One person was killed and another one wounded in
  a shootout at a polling station in the town of Novoaydar,
  according to the Deputy Head of Ukraine’s Interior Ministry.



  Reportedly, a column of Ukrainian National Guard armored vehicles
  managed to break through the protesters’ defense and was heading
  to Lugansk. The Kiev forces opened fire at civilians in a caf? in
  the town, an authority from the self-proclaimed People’s Republic
  of Lugansk told RIA Novosti. “A man and a woman were
  killed,” the source said, adding that several people were
  wounded.



  But the West seems to feel ok with part of Ukraine being under
  gunpoint.



    I spent the morning observing polling stations with @NDI as #UkraineVotes.
    pic.twitter.com/wJAS4uwWnK
    — Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) May
    25, 2014"
