"Russia and Iran set to strike $10bn energy deal

Iran and Russia are negotiating a power deal worth up to $10 billion in the face of increasing US financial alienation. The construction of new thermal and hydroelectric plants and a transmission network are in the works.


  Iran’s Energy Minister Hamid Chitchian met his Russian
  counterpart Aleksandr Novak in Tehran on Sunday in order to
  discuss the potential power deals, according to Iran’s Mehr news
  agency.
  “[Expansion of] Iran-Russia relations are not only to the
  benefit of the two nations, but also are beneficial to entire
  region,” Iranian President, Hassan Rouhani, stated in a
  meeting with Novak in Tehran on Sunday, reported Iran’s FARS news
  agency.
  
  Plans include the construction of hydroelectric and thermal
  generating plants and a new transmission network. The possibility
  of Russia exporting 500 megawatts of electricity to Iran is also
  on the cards, said Mehr.
  
  The strengthening of economic ties between the two countries is
  of heightened significance given both economic sanctions on Iran,
  imposed with the aim of encouraging Iran to cut its uranium
  stockpiles, and new economic sanctions on Russian officials
  imposed on Monday.
  
  On Sunday, Chitchian reportedly stressed “the need for
  further expansion of economic ties between Tehran and Moscow,
  particularly in the energy and commerce spheres,” stated
  Mehr.
  
  Moscow has additionally been discussing the trade of 500,000
  barrels a day of Iranian oil for Russian goods with Tehran. The
  protracted deal, first reported at the beginning of April could
  be worth as much as $20 billion, and has rattled Washington
  because it could bring Iran's crude exports above one million
  barrels a day - the threshold agreed upon in the nuclear deal
  between the P5+1 powers - US, Britain, France, China, Russia and
  Germany – and Iran.
  
  Moscow and Tehran are far from finalizing the contract, according
  to Russian business daily Kommersant, which first broke the news.
  Nonetheless, the Obama administration has expressed distaste at
  the reports.
  
  Tehran’s ambassador to Moscow Mehdi Sanaei said on Friday that
  the implementation of Iran-Russia energy agreements hold the key
  to economic expansion.
  
  Sanaei underlined the importance of promoting of Iran-Russia
  cooperation and called for the implementation of oil, gas and
  electricity deals, according to Press TV.
  
  Russia-Iran trade is currently worth $5 billion a year, but
  economists say the two countries can at least quadruple the
  volume of trade.



  Earlier this month, Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh
  said the Islamic Republic is determined to raise the volume of
  its “economic transactions” with Russia."
