"Kiev military unit shoots at Russian journalists after fight near Kramatorsk

Ukrainian armed forces have opened fire on journalists from Russia’s LifeNews working near the city of Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine, where fighting broke out between self-defense forces and Kiev’s army.


  The shooting began around 1 p.m. as three members of a LifeNews
  crew tried to enter the village of Oktyabrskoe following the
  fighting. The village is located some 20 kilometers from
  Kramatorsk.


“We saw that machines were gone and the shooting stopped like
  half-an-hour ago. We tried to enter the premises of the village
  to find out what happened to locals, if they needed help, and if
  there were wounded among them,” reporter Oleg Sidyakin told
  RT. “But as we got closer to the outskirts of the village, we
  ran into an armored troop carrier with a Ukrainian flag on it and
  armed people in black uniforms. We were going in a car with 'TV'
  stickers, indicating that were are press. We stuck hands out of
  windows, but first there came one shot and then machine gun
  fire.”


  Sidyakin said he did not know where the shots were aimed – in the
  air or above their heads – but still decided to turn away and
  move to a safer location, in order to avoid provoking armed
  people.


“I had to make such decision because I could not put in
  danger the lives of a driver and a cameraman,” he said.



  The LifeNews reporter said that local residents were shocked,
  stating that some of them hid in basements. Many still cannot
  return home. Sidyakin said that phone communication was cut off,
  which “as self-defense forces told us, is a sign of an
  'active phase' of the military operation” conducted by Kiev
  forces.



  Fighting between Kiev’s army and local self-defense groups broke
  out in the afternoon near Oktyabrskoe.


“It was around noon. The Ukrainian army was taking
  ammunitions to the city of Kramatorsk,” local resident
  Vladimir told RT, citing his friend Aleksandr, who lives
  nearby. “There is the village of Oktyabrskoe, where
  there is a bridge [on the way]. Our self-defense blew up a
  vehicle with ammunition and set Kiev’s APC on fire,” he
  said.



  According to Kiev’s Defense Ministry, a group of around 30
  self-defense troops “ambushed a convoy of armored vehicles of
  one of the military units.”


  The ministry said the self-defense group came to the scene
  beforehand and hid in bushes along the river.



  “The first shot from a grenade launcher targeted the engine of an
  APC, which came up to the bridge. There was an explosion. Another
  APC tried to pull away the damaged machine that caught fire
  further away from the village. The soldiers engaged in the
  fight, the ministry’s statement read.



  Kiev says that six of its army fighters were killed and another
  eight injured, with one in critical condition.



  Hours after the fight, self-defense units confirmed that they
  “destroyed two of the enemy’s APCs.” They also reported
  that one of their militiamen died.


It is true that there was an armed clash,” the
  Kramatorsk self-defense unit told Interfax. “The enemy
  retreated.”
  The fight near Kramatorsk is the latest in a string of local
  fights as Kiev continues to conduct its “punitive
  operation” against anti-government activists in southeastern
  Ukraine, which began May 2."
