"?Ron Paul: Western powers fomenting Ukrainian conflict, US should ‘stay out’

Former United States congressman and presidential candidate Ron Paul has called on the US to stay out of the intensifying Ukraine conflict, saying it was Western powers that initially stirred unrest there and which continue to incite the tense situation.


  On the brink of what he calls a “civil war,” Ukraine
  must be allowed to resolve its differences free of Western forces
  antagonizing and incentivizing further clashes, Paul said,
  especially in the nation’s east where pro-Russian Ukrainians are
  moving to protect the area from the Western-backed government in
  Kiev.


“Western Ukraine right now is being urged on by its Western
  supporters, meaning its NATO supporters, the European Union, the
  United States and the IMF (International Monetary Fund),”
  Paul wrote on his website, ronpaulchannel.com.



  Paul said the US and its allies provoked the Ukrainian conflict
  in the first place, despite what American media outlets and
  Western leaders claim about Russia’s culpability.


“The truth is, the coup of several weeks ago to overthrow the
  elected leader Viktor Yanukovych was stirred up by the same
  group: NATO, the European Union, the U.S., and the IMF,” he
  wrote.



  Paul said that Washington's role in pumping $5 billion into the
  effort to “control Ukraine” is plain interventionism and
  meddling which could easily result in disaster.


“The current fighting looks like a serious escalation that
  may get out of control, even though it’s in the interest on both
  sides, the West as well as Russia, not to escalate,” he
  wrote. “There have been a lot of threats and intimidation on
  sanctions and economic penalties, which very well could get out
  of control.”


  He adds that the IMF has dangled $17 billion in front of the Kiev
  government if it can rid eastern Ukrainian cities of “Russian
  supporters.” These kinds of measures, Paul said, explain
  “more aggressive activity by the Western Ukrainians to try to
  conquer these cities” and show that Western powers do not
  have the Ukrainian people’s best interests at heart.


“Ironically, the IMF doesn’t seem to have much common sense
  in trying to help the Ukrainian people because, in order to get
  this $17 billion, not only must they fight and control the East,
  they also have to raise taxes and increase oil prices—which will
  not help the people,” he wrote. “This is generally the
  case when there are sanctions placed on a country, or when war
  breaks out: the people suffer and the special interests seem to
  thrive.”


  Paul said that the western Ukrainian move to institute a military
  draft also proves it is not on the defensive against Russian
  incursion, as the US and its allies claim.


“In all seriousness, if a country is defending itself, then
  the people rally and you don’t have to use conscription to get
  fighters.”


  Paul concluded by saying the US has helped create and exacerbate
  divisions in Ukraine, and that Washington needs to refrain from
  offering money and weapons or picking sides, and let Ukraine
  “settle this on their own.”

“It would be much better for the Ukrainians, for the
  Europeans, for the Russians, and for the Americans, for us to
  just stay out and follow the principles of a non-intervention
  foreign policy.”"
