"Eastern energy pivot threatens the US dollar

The “Power of Siberia” is much more than a 30 year Sino-Russian gas/pipeline deal. Paying for the process accelerates the vogue to reduce dollar pricing. That, not the energy supply, will become the most acute threat to US economic hegemony.


  The superlatives have flowed as effortlessly as one day the gas
  will. At a stroke Russia has hugely diversified its energy sales
  with a $400 billion pivot. A fascinating by-product of the energy
  factor is the money element. The singular superpower era has been
  fuelled by an American economy benefitting from
  “dollarization”. Global reserve currency status has
  hugely fuelled America’s ongoing experiment in government by
  irrational exuberance. Washington has grown addicted to
  borrowing cheaply, exploiting its reserve currency to spend
  liberally on all vestiges of government. Thus the powerhouse
  private economy of the United States runs parallel to a massively
  inefficient government spending machine. Being a reserve currency
  has multiple benefits - other nations habitually trade in dollars
  thanks to global benchmarks. Hence, oil, gas and indeed illicit
  narcotics are all traditionally priced in the dear old greenback.
  Surplus dollars often find their way back to the USA and end up
  holding US Treasury Bonds - the debt which feeds big government.



  Recent moves to break dollar hegemony in energy pricing have been
  led by various Gulf states. Now, China and Russia have a perfect
  opportunity to circumvent dollars entirely with their bilateral
  deals creating a $77 billion pipeline (the world’s largest
  construction project) as well as the $400 billion gas transfer
  agreement. Thus the “Power of Siberia” is not merely an
  apt name for the pipeline stretching from Eastern Siberia to
  China’s populous north-eastern regions; it is also a maxim for
  the rise of alternative currencies.



  While the US dollar epitaph has been written many times, it still
  isn’t imminent. However, a dollar centric era is clearly coming
  to an end. Despite the ongoing failure of the political euro to
  be recognised as a valid reserve currency, US dollar threats are
  emerging rapidly - free floating bitcoin, rubles and yuan can all
  become significant competitors to the greenback.



  Even reduced reserve status has major implications for the USA.
  The more central banks, corporations, and indeed savers, prefer
  other currencies, the more difficult it is for the US to
  seamlessly borrow to feed its inherent overspending. Here the US
  is an agent in its own demise. Tax laws like FATCA and a
  misguided neocon ‘sanctionmania’ are driving alternative
  stores of value, even before we factor in the destructive impact
  on savers of the Fed’s quantitative easing.



  QE is akin to another reserve currency trait, known in the
  economics fraternity as “exorbitant privilege.” For the
  US to pay bills, it can just print more cash and satisfy any debt
  denominated in dollars. The increasingly integrated global
  economy has enabled Washington to abuse exorbitant privilege at a
  scale unknown to previous reserve currency nations such as
  Imperial Britain.



  While the US dollar has been the established pricing unit for
  global energy, the petrocurrency play has helped maintain US
  reserve currency hegemony. However, America has overplayed its
  cards, borrowing too heavily, ignoring fiscal discipline and then
  endeavouring to bully the rest of the world to maintain its
  erratic standards. Ironically even the ‘good news’ of US shale
  further weakens the dollar’s reserve status. With less import
  demand from an increasingly self-sufficient US, why will
  exporters want to price in US dollars? After all, the world’s
  biggest oil importer China already has grave misgivings about the
  US dollars it holds. Indeed its existing energy deals with Brazil
  bypass the dollar.



  The Eastern trade pivot will take a remarkable edge off America’s
  ability to simply kick the can down the road fiscally. Meanwhile
  the US government needs to borrow (conservatively) $2.7 billion
  per day. “The Power of Siberia” will likely be financed
  in construction and operation through expansion of the existing
  Sino-Russian swap facilities established between Beijing and
  Moscow i.e. without recourse to US dollars. Thus removing the
  dollar from the energy price is becoming more feasible by the
  day. Any expansion may not be very apparent by 2018 when the
  pipeline is due to open. Nevertheless ongoing US dollar hegemony
  is being endangered by each and every eastern trade deal.
  
  In Washington DC, the pork barrel politicians of “Kickcanistan” must adjust their
  thinking, and particularly their spending, to take account of the
  eastern pivot.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
