"MOSCOW, May 17. /ITAR-TASS/. Foreign Ministers of Russia and Slovakia, Sergei Lavrov and Miroslav Lajcak, will have talks on May 18-19 over the settlement in Ukraine, the Russian Foreign Ministry says.

The foreign ministers of both countries “will exchange views on key bilateral and international issues, including the situation in Ukraine and ways to overcome the internal political crisis in the country”, the ministry says.

“Special attention will be paid to strengthening trade and economic relations, as well as investment and interregional cooperation. The parties will discuss measures to improve the legal base,” it says.

“The Russian-Slovak intergovernmental commission for economic, scientific and technical cooperation plays a coordinating role,” the ministry says.

During the visit, the Slovak minister is expected to meet with Russian Vice-Premier Dmitry Rogozin, it adds.

Russian-Slovak relations are built on mutual benefit, friendship and both countries’ drive for partnership and a mutually respectful dialogue. “This will allow us to resolve bilateral issues and promote joint projects,” the ministry says.

“We consider Slovakia our promising partner,” it says.

Russia ranks third among Slovakia’s trade partners. Slovakia itself is among 20 Russia’s major trade counterparts. The priority task is to make trade turnover between the two countries stabilise. In 2013 it reached 9.39 billion dollars: it decreased by 4.8%. The parties seek to improve trade’s structure and promote innovation and high-tech cooperation within the action programme for the development of cooperation. The programme was signed in Moscow in March 2013.

The parties will discuss energy cooperation that is a driving force strengthening economic cooperation. “We should mention Slovakia’s position on reverse gas flows to Ukraine,” the ministry says.

Russia is grateful to Slovakia for careful attitude to memory of Soviet soldiers who died in the fight against Nazism. In Slovakia there are 12 military cemeteries, 34 mutual burials and 140 separate burials where over 60,000 Soviet servicemen are buried.

In 2014 Slovakia will mark the 70th anniversary of the Slovak National Uprising (August 29) and the Battle of Dukla Pass, officially known as the “Carpathian Operation”, of the Red Army (October 6)."
