"China slams US for ‘fabricating’ cyber spying evidence

The US has fabricated evidence to back cyber espionage accusations against Chinese military officials, China’s Defense and Foreign Ministries said.

“In the field of internet technology and infrastructure, the
  US is blessed with an advantage, so fabricating some so-called
  ‘evidence’ is certainly no hardship, Chinese Defense
  Ministry spokesman Geng Yansheng said, as quoted by Reuters.
  
  Last week, the US Justice Department (DOJ) accused five Chinese
  officers of hacking into American companies to steal trade
  secrets and pass them on to Chinese state-owned enterprises.
  
  The summary of the alleged conduct released by the DOJ contained
  detailed information about the alleged perpetrators and their
  activities, which included domain names and email addresses used
  in the attacks.
  
  But Geng compared Washington's evidence of Chinese cyber spying
  to its justification for the invasion of Iraq in 2003.
  
  Back then, the Americans stated that Baghdad was in possession of
  weapons of mass destruction, but the accusations later appeared
  to be baseless.
  “The international community has not seen the US’ so-called
  proof. They've only seen the massive conflict and hardship
  endured by the people of Iraq, Geng stressed.
  
  The harsh comments from the Defense Ministry were echoed by the
  Chinese Foreign Ministry, which also held a briefing on Thursday.
  
  Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gan used the same wording, saying
  that Washington's proof of Chinese cyber espionage is
  “fabricated.”“We have repeatedly said that the Chinese government,
  military and relevant personnel have never engaged or
  participated in cyber espionage activities,” Qin said, as
  quoted by Japan's Kyodo news agency.
  
  Washington “shouldn’t be rigorous on others, while being
  lenient itself,” the spokesman stressed, reminding of the
  country's large-scale cyber snooping activities revealed by
  whistleblower Edward Snowden.
  
  On Wednesday, a Chinese general labeled the US “the world's
  No.1 cyber thief” in terms of both military and political
  intelligence.
  “It is ridiculous for the US side to say that cyber espionage
  on political and military intelligence is common practice while
  the theft of commercial secrets is illegal,” Sun Jianguo,
  deputy chief of General Staff of the Chinese People's Liberation
  Army, told China Daily newspaper.
  
  He described Washington’s actions in the Chinese cyber espionage
  affair as “a thief crying 'stop thief,'” adding that it
  seriously violates the norms of international relations and
  hampers China-US relations.
  
  Earlier this week, it was reported that state-owned Chinese companies will end
  their work with US consulting companies such as McKinsey and
  Boston Consulting Group, over fears they are spying on behalf of
  the US government.
  
  China's leadership has also reportedly urged banks to stop using IBM servers and replace
  them with local-made machines amid fears that the nation’s
  financial security might be compromised via the US-based
  company’s servers."
