"MOSCOW, May 29 (RIA Novosti) – Moscow is not trying to impose specific terms of international cooperation on anyone to settle the situation in Ukraine, but an additional impetus is needed to de-escalate tensions in the crisis-hit country, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Thursday.

“We are not imposing any concrete forms [of international cooperation], but we can clearly feel the necessity for [giving the settlement process] an additional impetus by the international community,” Lavrov said during talks with Venezuelan Foreign Minister Elias Jaua.

“I think that the UN Secretary General, at least, could have shown more persistence on the issue, on making the Odessa tragedy investigation transparent, unbiased and fair,” he said.

Russia’s top diplomat said that persuasion alone is not sufficient to make Kiev stop the ongoing violent special operation in the southeast of the country.

“Possibly, some efficient mediation efforts are needed in order to stop violence, namely the punitive operation, and start a dialogue based on mutual respect,” Lavrov said.

He added that judging by recent statements, the Ukrainian authorities are determined to carry out the crackdown on federalists in the southeast of Ukraine by all means and regardless of costs.

“The recent statements … made by the Kiev leadership show that they are determined to bring this so-called anti-terrorist operation to an end, [although I’m] not sure what kind of end it will be,” Lavrov said.

Ukraine went to the polls on May 25 amid a deep political crisis and large-scale military operation launched by Kiev’s authorities in mid-April to crack down on pro-federalization supporters in the southeast of the country. Moscow has described the operation as a punitive act.

Dozens of anti-government activists were killed in a fire at the Trade Unions House in the port city of Odessa during clashes with radical extremists from the Right Sector movement on May 2. According to official figures, 48 people died, another 200 received injuries.

Lavrov earlier said that Moscow had asked the UN and OSCE to conduct an international investigation of the Odessa tragedy. Moscow said that Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons should be involved in the investigation, as Ukraine’s Security Service earlier confirmed that an unknown substance was found in the burnt building.

Although Kiev officials insist most of the victims died of smoke inhalation or were killed when jumping out of windows, media reports suggest that many of the dead were poisoned by an unknown toxic chemical."
