"?Russia withdraws troops from Ukraine border to create ‘benign conditions’ ahead of elections

Russian troops, which had been deployed for drills near the border with Ukraine, are starting to move back to their permanent bases. President Putin says it is a gesture aimed at providing “benign conditions” for the Ukrainian presidential election.


  The troops, which had been deployed to the Rostov, Belgorod and
  Bryansk Regions “have completed the dismantling of field
  camps and training equipment, the loading of the material and
  preparation of the hardware for the march, and are now commencing
  the movement to railway stations and airstrips,” the Russian
  Defense Ministry said Wednesday in a statement.


“All the units which were involved in performing scheduled
  combat training exercises in remote areas will return to their
  permanent stations by the beginning of summer,” the ministry
  added.



  The statement said the decisions to conduct the training in
  remote areas near Ukrainian border and make them more intensive
  than previous similar events was justified, considering the good
  results shown by the troops.



  Footage from the scene showed the Russian military packing and
  leaving the area.



  The order to send the Russian troops home came on Monday from
  President Vladimir Putin. On Wednesday he commented on the
  development, saying that it is aimed at “creating additional
  benign conditions over the upcoming presidential election in
  Ukraine, to prevent any possible speculation.”


  Putin stressed that this was a gesture of goodwill rather than
  Russia bending to the pressure.


“We keep our troops wherever we want,” he said.



  The military presence close to Ukraine has been a source of
  constant tension between Russia and the West, particularly NATO.
  They have been calling on Moscow to pull back the troops to
  de-escalate tension in Ukraine and accused Russia of secretly
  trying to derail the election.



  The calls prompted irritated comments from Deputy Defense
  Minister Anatoly Antonov earlier on Tuesday, who gave voice to
  Russian generals’ displeasure over being lectured on what they
  should do inside Russia.


“Could anyone explain me, taking our tanks how many
  kilometers from the border would be enough for you to say, ‘OK,
  we are satisfied’? Five kilometers, 10, a hundred?” he
  lashed out.



  The comments came after several occasions in which Russia
  announced it was moving the troops further from the border, with
  Western military responding that they have not seen evidence of
  Russia doing so.



  The latest statement to that effect came early on Wednesday from
  an anonymous source in NATO, which said We still have not
  seen any evidence of a Russian withdrawal of troops from the
  Ukraine border area.


  US Army Secretary John McHugh spoke along the same lines.


What we know thus far is that there has been certain troop
  movements, but I have received no confirmation, either through
  Pentagon sources or NATO sources, that there has been a wholesale
  repositioning of those troops off the border, McHugh said.



  NATO’s failure to spot the movements of the Russian troops called
  for a comment from Putin, who said “if the weather is fine,
  they will see it from space.”

“If somebody cannot see what is happening, let him watch
  closer,” he added."
