"US trains Syrian rebels in Qatar to ‘ambush' soldiers and 'finish off' the wounded – report

At a secret base in Qatar, the US military is training rebels to raid Syrian government troops and vehicles, as well as to “finish off the soldiers still alive after an ambush,” first-hand interviews in a Frontline documentary have revealed.


  The documentary, scheduled to air Tuesday night
  on PBS stations, offers rare insight into how Washington is
  fostering the armed insurgency against Syrian President Bashar
  Assad.



  It features interviews by journalist Muhammad Ali with Syrian
  rebels presented as members of a “moderate faction” who
  describe a clandestine meeting with their “American
  handlers” in Turkey, along with the receiving of weapons and
  ammunition and the subsequent travel to Qatar for training.



  At a Qatar base, said to be on the border with Saudi Arabia, the
  rebels allegedly received three weeks of training in the use of
  sophisticated weapons and fighting techniques, and also received
  new uniforms and boots.


“They trained us to ambush regime or enemy vehicles and cut
  off the road,” a fighter identified only as
  'Hussein' told Ali.


“They also trained us on how to attack a vehicle, raid it,
  retrieve information or weapons and munitions, and how to finish
  off soldiers still alive after an ambush,” the masked rebel
  said.



  According to Ali, the 21-year-old militant had not had any prior
  military training, like many of his fellow fighters. Initially,
  Hussein and about 80 to 90 other rebels were sent to Ankara for
  training at the request of “American contacts,”
  Hussein’s commander told the journalist.



  After days of interrogations “about their political leanings
  and their unit’s fighting history,” some military men, who
  the commander thought were from the CIA, told the rebels they
  were to be sent to a training camp in Qatar – a Persian Gulf
  monarchy hosting several US military bases.



  How the training will impact the civil war in Syria remains to be
  seen. The rebels told Ali they need anti-aircraft missiles to
  combat Assad’s superior air forces.


“When I saw there was no training in anti-aircraft missiles,
  my morale was destroyed,” one fighter told Ali.



  It was previously reported this month that the US supplied so-called
  moderate opposition forces with anti-tank weapons in a “pilot
  program” aimed at strengthening anti-Assad fighters.
  American officials said the initiative would serve as a test to
  see if the US could supply opposition rebels with weapons without
  the artillery “fall[ing] into the wrong hands,”
  specifically Islamist forces like the Al-Qaeda-aligned Nusra
  Front and other groups.



  Syria was plunged into civil war in 2011 when peaceful uprisings
  against Assad descended into violence. As a result of the
  conflict, at least 150,000 people have died and millions more
  have been displaced and gone into exile. The international
  community made significant progress last year when the US and
  Russia agreed that Syria should destroy its chemical weapons
  stockpile following an attack in Damascus on August 21, 2013.



  The UN's Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
  task force confirmed earlier this month that 92 percent of the
  weapons stockpile has been removed from the war-torn nation."
