"BARCELONA, May 21, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Nexeo Solutions, a global leader in plastics distribution with sales operations in more than 18 countries, has reached an agreement with Chimsnab BG JSC to expand Nexeo Solutions' distribution reach to Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, and Serbia.

Headquartered in Ruse, Bulgaria, Chimsnab BG JSC is a leading distributor of specialty chemicals and polymer compounds with sales operations & projects in Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, and Serbia.

This agreement will improve Nexeo Solutions' geographical coverage in Eastern Europe and provide Chimsnab's clients access to Nexeo Solutions' leading polymer suppliers.

We are excited to be able to support our key suppliers more effectively and to better serve customers through Chimsnab BG JSC, said Alan Arezes, EMEA Business Growth and Transformation Manager of Nexeo Solutions.

Partnering with Nexeo Solutions will reinforce our role in polymer distribution while maintaining our leadership position in specialty chemicals, said Plamen Petrov, General Manager of Chimsnab BG JSC.

 

About Nexeo Solutions

Nexeo Solutions is the largest global chemical, plastics, and composites distributor with a centralized business model. Operating in over 70 countries worldwide, Nexeo offers over 27,000 products in America, EMEA, and Asia. In Europe, Nexeo is exclusively focused on plastics distribution, being the key partner of industry-leading suppliers such as Borealis, DSM, Mitsubishi, and Styron. Industry-specific support includes a dedicated automotive and medical team. Nexeo serves a broad cross section of industries, including packaging, construction, automotive, healthcare, and personal care. The company provides broad logistics capabilities, in-depth market knowledge, and dedicated technical expertise. As a private company employing approximately 2600 employees, Nexeo connects a network of over 1300 suppliers with a diverse base of more than 29,000 customers. Learn more at www.nexeosolutions.com.

About Chimsnab

Chimsnab BG JSC is a private company focused on the distribution and technical support of plastics and specialty chemicals. Chimsnab serves the markets in molding and extrusion, coatings & industrial applications, cosmetics & life science, detergents, food and sports flooring. Learn more at www.chimsnab.bg.

 

Contact:

Gianpaolo Armando, Vice President for EMEA

Tel.: +34 93 480 91 25

garmando@nexeosolutions.com"
