"Veterangate: Obama announces resignation of VA Secretary Shinseki

Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki has resigned from his role amidst a major VA scandal, United States President Barack Obama said Friday morning.


  During a briefing from the White House press room early Friday,
  Pres. Obama confirmed that moments earlier he accepted Shinseki’s
  resignation “with considerable regret.”



  Shinseki, a retired US Army four-star general with nearly 50
  years of service under his belt, has found himself at the center
  of controversy in recent weeks amid reports concerning his
  office’s role with regards to rampant mismanagement within the
  Department of Veteran Affairs.



  When Pres. Obama addressed the media Thursday morning, he said
  that a preliminary investigation has determined that
  “Misconduct has not been limited to a few VA facilities”
  as previously thought, “but many across the country.”



  That conclusion, the president said, is “totally
  unacceptable.”


“All veterans deserve the best. They earned it,” Obama
  continued. “Last week I said that if we found misconduct it
  would be punished, and I meant it.”


  Shinseki is far from the only VA official to be reprimanded,
  though. Pres. Obama said Thursday that out-going secretary was in
  the midst of taking action on his own against other Veteran
  Affairs employees and had begun firing many of the people
  responsible for a series of abuses that range from ignoring the
  concerns of vets to falsifying documents.



  In Phoenix, Arizona, where as many as 1,700 veterans were
  awaiting treatment, Obama said that Shinseki was ensuring that
  the VA would contact every veteran on that wait list, and that
  senior executives responsible for the snafu would be subject to
  punishment ranging from the revoking of bonuses to outright
  termination.



  Sloan Gibson, the deputy secretary of Veteran Affairs under
  Shinseki, will immediately assume the role of acting secretary,
  Obama said.


“I regret that [Shinseki] has to resign under these
  circumstances, but I also have confidence that Sloane and I share
  Eric Shinseki’s assessment that the number one priority is making
  sure that problems get fixed,” the president said."
