"Ukraine bans entry to RT crew sent to cover presidential election

RT Arabic’s news crew who arrived in Kiev to cover the upcoming May 25 Ukrainian presidential election has not been allowed into the country and is being sent back to Moscow.


  RT’s correspondent Anna Knishenko and her colleagues Elderra
  Khaled and Konstantin Bolshakov arrived from Moscow in Kiev’s
  international airport Borispol on Tuesday afternoon.



  “At the border control they immediately took our passports.
  An hour later, we – one by one – were invited to a special room
  for an interview,” Knishenko said on the phone. The
  interview has already become a routine for everyone arriving in
  Borispol airport.



  She said three border control officials were asking them the
  purpose of their visit and the amount of money the journalists
  had with them and whether they have ever visited Ukraine before.
  Knishenko said she was also asked her personal opinion about the
  situation with Crimea – which joined Russia following the March
  16 referendum – and, also about RT channel.



  “They said they saw my reports,” Knishenko, who works
  for the Arabic team, added.



  After “cross-examining” the cameraman and the assistant
  - which lasted altogether for about an hour - the team was
  allowed to collect their luggage.



  Border guards gave the journalists papers in the Ukrainian
  language stating that they were denied entry since they could not
  properly explain the purpose of their visit, the RT reporter
  said.That is despite the journalists being accredited by the
  Ukrainian Central Election Commission, she added.



  The RT crew was then made to leave for their departure flight,
  being allowed only to go a caf? and smoking area.



  “We’re walking under convoy everywhere,” Knishenko said.



  The journalists were not told when their plane would leave and
  not provided with any other information. Passports will only be
  returned to them by Aeroflot pilots.



  Earlier in the day, RT contributing journalist Graham Phillips
  said he was detained by the National Guard at a check point in
  Mariupol, eastern Ukraine. Since then connection with him was
  lost and according to the latest reports he is being to Kiev.



  On Sunday, two journalists for Russian channel LifeNews were
  captured in eastern Ukraine by the Ukrainian National Guard. The
  Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) urged
  Kiev authorities to release the journalists, Oleg Sidyakin and
  Marat Saichenko, saying that intimidation and obstruction of
  media working in the country is “unacceptable.”



  The organization’s representative on freedom of the media, Dunja
  Mijatovic, addressed the Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov
  in a letter, urging to him to thoroughly investigate the
  incident, Itar-Tass reported.



  Speaking on Monday in Vienna, Mijatovic condemned “continued
  harassment of journalists covering the conflict in Ukraine.”



  She noted that on 15-16 May, Russian journalists from various
  media, including Zvezda, NTV, Channel One and TVC channels, were
  denied entry to the country, the OSCE website quotes. Reportedly,
  all journalists were accredited by responsible Ukrainian
  authorities to cover the presidential election.



  “Journalists must be free to do their job without fear for
  their safety. In times of conflict the plurality of voices and
  opinions are needed more than ever in order for the citizens to
  be informed,” Mijatovic said.



  “The media freedom situation in Ukraine reflects the overall
  security situation, which will not improve if there is no
  action,” she added. “All political leaders engaged in
  resolving the crisis in Ukraine need to clearly understand that
  violations of media freedom are unacceptable.”"
