"Producer of Russian TV show detained in Ukraine alongside his colleague

A Russian and a Belorussian national, both employees of the Russian NTV channel have been detained in the city Pershotravensk in Dnipropetrovsk region, SBU announced. Earlier it was reported that both journalists vanished.


  The men were detained by Ukraine's Dnepr unit on Wednesday when
  they were filming administrative buildings on hidden cameras. The
  men are being investigated under article that forbids the use of
  special technical means of obtaining information.


  One of the men showed passport of Belarus and presented himself
  to be a journalists for Russian NTV channel, yet he failed to
  provide any press credentials. The second detainee is a Russian
  citizen who lives in the Lugansk region of Ukraine, Ukrainian
  Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) said.



  Earlier, RT managed to get a hold of the NTV program host who
  said that a Belarusian citizen Stepan Chirich, a producer for the
  weekly program Central Television, went to the city of
  Pershotravinsk in the Dnepropetrovsk region to make a report
  about the visit of a well-known exorcist, Pastor Bob Larson,
  who’s there as part of his world tour.



  “We lost contact with [Chirich] on Tuesday
  evening,” Vadim Takmenyov, the program’s host, told RT.



  Chirich has been working for the program for several years.



  “We sent him to Ukraine – a producer, not a correspondent
  – because he is the only Central Television employee who has a
  Belarusian passport, using which one can cross the
  [Russian-Ukrainian] border without any problems and do his
  professional activities,” Takmenyov said.



  Takmenyov underlined that political events in the crisis-torn
  country were completely unrelated to that particular trip.



  A cameraman who was working with the NTV producer was from
  Lugansk, in eastern Ukraine, who too went missing.



  Earlier, the channel said that the disappearance and subsequent
  detention of the crew might be connected with reports about the
  detention of two suspected Russian “saboteurs”
  in Dnepropetrovsk region.



  According to Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper, two men
  “pretending to be journalists” were grabbed by
  local militia and passed over to the Ukrainian Security Service
  (SBU) after filming a police station and the city council in
  Pershotravinsk.



  Citing unofficial sources, the paper said the unnamed men had
  Belarusian passports, but equipment they used “indicated
  their relation to Russian intelligence.”


  He said the channel sent to its colleagues in Ukraine documents
  proving that Chirich has nothing to do with any intelligence
  services.



  “We hope [journalists in Ukraine] will report on [the
  incident] in one or another way, but fairly, and say that we are
  looking for our colleague,” the NTV journalist added in
  a telephone comment to RT.



  Following the February coup in Kiev, Russian journalists and TV
  crews have repeatedly beendenied
  entry to Ukraine on various pretexts.The new authorities also
  accused several Russian television channels of propaganda and
  ordered local cable providers to cut them off.



  Later, some providers – primarily in eastern Ukraine – resumed
  broadcast of Russian channels.



  Earlier in April, the Russian upper house of parliament said in a
  statement that Russian journalists “are facing
  psychological and physical pressure in Ukraine” while
  the country’s online media reporting on the crisis “is
  being attacked by hackers.”



  Last week, a journalist and a camerawoman for Russia’s LifeNews
  were detained
  and questionedfor many hours by Ukraine law enforcers."
