"Lugansk and Donetsk regions vote for self-determination

Polling stations have closed in Ukraine's self-proclaimed People’s Republics of Donetsk and Lugansk after a referendum on independence from the Kiev government. The turnout reached over 70 percent, according to organizers of the poll.


  Follow RT's LIVE UPDATES on Eastern Ukraine



  The last polling stations in Lugansk and Donetsk regions wrapped
  up their work at 23:00 local time (20:00 GMT).



  There is no minimum voter turnout required for the “people’s
  republics’” self-determination referendum, but local authorities
  claim that in Lugansk it has been over 79%, while in Donetsk
  region it reached 74.87%, Ria Novosti reports.



  According to first preliminary results, only 5% of those who cast
  their ballots said ‘no’ answering to a question whether they
  “support the Act of state self-rule” of the Lugansk
  People's Republic respectively, the leader of local “people’s
  front” Aleksey Chmilenko told Interfax.



  “I think this number [5 %] will not rise, but it may
  decrease,” he added.



  According to preliminary results in Donetsk region, 89.7% votes
  were cast in favor of self-rule, Donetsk election committee said.


#Donetsk
    region has started counting the votes. Results are expected in
    the morning.
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 11, 2014


  Ahead of the vote, local self-defense forces boosted security,
  fearing that Kiev could stage provocations to disrupt the
  self-determination vote. In several areas the day did result in
  new violence and new casualties as the Ukrainian army continues
  its military operation against “separatists” as it calls
  pro-autonomy activists.



    Many people at polling station pic.twitter.com/RAbELypS1o
    — RT Ruptly-Nicolaj (@Nicolaj_Gericke) 
    May 11, 2014


  In Mariupol, recovering from Friday's deadly clashes, only eight
  polling stations were opened, according to the coordinator of the
  central election commission of the “Donetsk People’s Republic”,
  Boris Litvinov. Those willing to vote had to wait for their turn
  in huge queues.



  Almost simultaneously with the opening of polling stations,
  sounds of shooting and artillery fire were heard on the outskirts
  of Slavyansk, in southeast Ukraine’s Donetsk region.



  Activists in Slavyansk described the attacks to RT by phone.
  
  “The artillery fire was so loud, that the earth and houses
  shook,” said one man, who only gave his first name, Vlad.
  “I have been trying to call the people at the checkpoint but
  they don’t pick up. There are snipers in the area and it’s too
  dangerous to speak on the phone.”



  Slavyansk already witnessed mortar shelling of its outskirts by
  Ukrainian forces on the eve of the referendum. In the embattled
  city the
  stations will close at 15:00 GMT for security reasons.


#Slavyansk:
    Some polling stations are guarded by Cossacks.
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 11, 2014


  Some 1,471 polling stations in Lugansk region and around 1,500 in
  Donetsk region opened their doors for voters at 8:00 local time
  (5:00 GMT) and will close at 22:00 (19:00 GMT). Security has been
  tightened around them.
  
  “We sent additional self-defense units to polling stations
  and also to the most important social institutions,” a
  Lugansk self-defense leader, Aleksey Chmilenko, told Interfax.
  “So far everything is normal, there are no incidents.”



  RT’s Paula Slier, currently in Donetsk, reported that Roman
  Lyagin, chair of the central election commission in the region,
  believed that a provocation was planned and said that
  anti-government activists were ready for it.



    Roman #Lyagin,
    chair of central #election
    commission, This is will of people. The world can say this is
    bad idea but its idea of the people
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 11, 2014


  The people’s governor of the Donetsk region, Pavel Gubarev, told
  journalists that Donetsk and Lugansk will emerge as new legal
  entities as a result of the referendum.



  “The referendum for us is about creating a new state
  paradigm,” he said.



  Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry said the results of the referendum in
  Donetsk and Lugansk regions would not affect the country’s
  territorial integrity and form of government.



  “Organizers of this criminal farce have consciously violated
  the Ukrainian constitution and laws, and have neglected calls
  coming from the authorities in Ukraine and from the international
  community,” the ministry’s statement read.



    People patiently waiting outside voting stations in #Donetsk#referendumpic.twitter.com/LiJcmcN54c
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 11, 2014


  Citizens of the two southeastern regions of Ukraine were asked if
  they “support the Act of state self-rule” of Donetsk
  People's Republic or Lugansk People's Republic. The election
  commission officials explained that the people are not choosing
  between staying within Ukraine and joining Russia, as widely
  reported, but instead are asked to support regions’ right for
  political self-determination.



  Over 3 million ballot papers were printed for Donetsk region. All
  in all, the organizers spent about 20,000 hryvnas (US$ 2,000)
  preparing for the vote in Ukraine’s industrial region, the heart
  of the country’s coal-mining. “The referendum will be
  considered valid whatever voter turnout will be,” Roman
  Lyagin, the head Donetsk election commission told reporters on
  Saturday.



  In Donetsk, western observers were not present at the polling
  stations, commission officials said, as nobody expressed
  willingness to oversee the vote in the turbulent region. “We
  did not refuse anyone, there were no applications,” Lyagin
  said, adding though that over 470 international journalists were
  accredited in Donetsk.



  Some 30 international observers were monitoring the voting in
  Lugansk region, where some 1.8 million are expected to take part
  in the referendum. “According to a survey, 83% of Lugansk
  residents are ready to support the Act of state self-rule of the
  People’s Republic of Lugansk,” said Igor Shakhov, the head
  of the local election commission.



  The referendums, announced back in March, went ahead as planned
  despite Russian President Putin’s call on pro-federalization
  activists to postpone them due to the deteriorating and
  unpredictable security situation in Ukraine.



  The Kiev government as well as many western countries, including
  the US, France and Germany called the referendums
  “illegal” and urged dialogue between all conflicting
  parties in Ukraine, at the same time showing no readiness to stop
  the punitive military operation in the east of the country.



  The Unites States and EU have denounced the referendum and said
  they would not recognize the result of the vote on self-rule held
  by rebels.


The so-called referenda in... parts of Lugansk and Donetsk
  regions were illegal and we do not recognize the outcome. Those
  who organized the referenda have no democratic legitimacy,
  said Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief
  Catherine Ashton.



  If a majority of voters answer “yes” on Sunday the
  regions will gain full moral right to officially state they do
  not accept what is happening in the country, anti-coup protesters
  say. The combined population of Donetsk and Lugansk industrial
  regions, rejecting the legitimacy of the coup-installed Kiev
  authorities, stands at about 6.7 million in a country of 45
  million."
