"Unverified & exposed: NYT-State Dept 'Russians in Ukraine' image proof collapses

Pictures presented by Washington and Kiev as evidence of Russia's involvement in Ukraine, and published on Monday by the New York Times, were unverified and in fact contradicted the claims they were to support.


  The US State department acknowledged the error and the New York
  Times back-tracked on its Monday story, which claimed
  “photographs and descriptions from eastern Ukraine endorsed
  by the Obama administration … suggest that many of the green men
  are indeed Russian military and intelligence forces”.



  The proof was this particular picture with an inscription “Group
  photograph taken in Russia”.



  Freelance photographer Maxim Dondyuk took the photo.



  “It was taken in Slavyansk [Ukraine],” he told NYT over
  the phone. “Nobody asked my permission to use it.”



  The picture was amongst others Kiev gave the OSCE mission to
  Ukraine to ‘prove’ Russian involvement in the massive unrest
  gripping the Donetsk region.



  The State Department repeated the claims, citing ‘confirmation’
  of Moscow involvement.



  “We see in the photos that have been again in international
  media, on Twitter, publicly available is that there are
  individuals who visibly appear to be tied to Russia. We’ve said
  that publicly a countless number of times,” Jen Psaki, State Dept
  spokeswoman said.



  The New York Times eventually published a climbdown Wednesday - ‘Scrutiny Over Photos
  Said to Tie Russia Units to Ukraine’, where it admitted failing
  to properly verify the Kiev photo dossier.



  The NYT also cited the State Dept’s Psaki admitting “the
  assertion that the photograph in the American briefing materials
  had been taken in Russia was incorrect”. She explained the
  picture was only part of a draft packet that wasn’t used by Kerry
  at the talks.



  Psaki then claimed to have other evidence connecting “the
  Russians and the armed militants” in eastern Ukraine but
  would not provide details."
