"US to work closely with EU to cut its Russian gas imports

The US has pledged to help the EU cut down its gas imports from Russia and diversify its energy supply during President Barack Obama’s visit to Europe next week, National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes said.

The topics up for
  discussion during Obama’s visit - which is scheduled to take
  place June 2-6 - include US natural gas exports and the prospect
  of increasing US sales to the EU, according to the
  advisor.

Over the last several weeks, we have already taken some
  steps to, through our licensing, increase the export of natural
  gas to Europe and we see that as part of the European energy
  picture and European energy diversification, Rhodes told
  reporters on Friday.



  He added that the US will be discussing ways that the EU could
  diversify its gas imports, stating that tensions in Ukraine have
  highlighted the EU’s energy dependency.


The Ukraine crisis has brought into sharp relief Europe's
  energy dependence on Russia, so we are going to work closely with
  our European allies on the importance of both short- and
  long-term efforts to diversify their energy sources, to modernize
  their infrastructure and to limit Russia's ability to use energy
  as a tool of political leverage, Rhodes said.



  Another important aspect of the trip will be the discussion of
  climate policy.



  The situation in Ukraine has escalated, with Kiev launching a
  massive military offensive in the east which has claimed dozens
  of lives - both among the militias and local civilians.



  On Friday, Ukraine’s Defense Minister Mikhail Koval said that
  Kiev’s army will continue its military operation against the
  country’s east until the situation in the region stabilizes.



  According to officials from the self-proclaimed People’s Republic
  of Donetsk, over 100 people have been killed during the
  offensives.



  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay urged Kiev on
  Wednesday to refrain from using excessive force in Ukraine.


“I call on the Ukrainian authorities to ensure that no
  excessive force is used, not to take discriminatory action and to
  avoid action that can harm the civilian population,” the
  official told Itar-Tass."
