"WASHINGTON, May 2 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Barack Obama said on Friday that the U.S. and Germany are prepared to impose broader sanctions on Russia if it continues to destabilize Ukraine.

We will not have a choice but to move forward with additional, more severe sanctions, if Russia disrupts Ukraine's presidential elections scheduled on May 25, Obama said at a joint news conference with visiting German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the White House.

We are confident that we will have a package that will further impact Russia's growth and economy, Obama said, adding that the sanctions could target Russia's energy, arms and finance sectors.

Merkel said the European Union is prepared to slap a new round of sanctions on Russia with a broad range of possibilities, stressing that sanctions on Russia show that we are serious about our principles.

The two leaders met in Washington as Kiev launched a major offensive against militants that have seized government buildings across Ukraine's east. Russia slammed the operation, saying it would wipe out all hope for the viability of an agreement reached in Geneva last month.

While showing determination to impose more costs on Russia should it further destabilizes Ukraine, both leaders expressed the hope that the crisis in Ukraine will be resolved through diplomatic means.

Our preference is a diplomatic resolution to this issue, Obama said, adding our hope is that we do not have to deploy the sanctions.

Obama added that the sanctions are not aimed at punishing the Russian people, but dissuading Russian President Vladimir Putin from his current course. Merkel said she agreed with Obama that sanctions are not an end in itself.

Both the U.S. and the European Union announced fresh sanctions on more Russian officials and firms Monday, in a display of unity amid the worsening situation in Ukraine. But some European officials have expressed misgivings that the sanctions on Russia could backfire given Europe's dependence on Russia for energy.

At Friday's press conference, Obama also called on Russia to help free observers of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in Ukraine. He said pro-Russia militants are still holding seven observers, including four Germans.

Russia needs to work to secure their immediate release, said Obama, adding that the U.S. and Germany are united in expressing outrage over the appalling treatment of the OSCE observers. 

Related:

Putin slams Ukraine's air attack, rebels down two helicopters

MOSCOW/KIEV, May 2 (Xinhua) -- Russia slammed Ukraine for its military assault in the eastern city of Slaviansk Friday, saying it would wipe out all hope for the viability of the Geneva agreements.

During a visit to Minsk, (President Vladimir) Putin called such a possible operation criminal ... Regrettably, the ongoing events have fully confirmed this assessment, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters, as Ukrainian forces tried to retake government buildings occupied by pro-Russia activists. Full story

Protesters storm prosecutor's office in Ukraine's Donetsk: report

KIEV, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Pro-Russia protesters stormed the prosecutor's office in the eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk on Thursday, according to Interfax-Ukraine news agency.  Full story

Putin urges immediate national dialogue within Ukraine

MOSCOW, May 1 (Xinhua) -- President Vladimir Putin called Thursday for an immediate extensive national dialogue in Ukraine, amid rising tension in that country's east and southeast.

Putin emphasized that it was imperative today to withdraw all military units from the southeastern regions (of Ukraine) and stop the violence, the Kremlin press service said, citing a telephone conversation between Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Full story

Russia warns Ukraine against military operation in southeast

MOSCOW, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Russian Foreign Ministry urged Ukraine not to use armed force in its southeastern regions Thursday, saying it would lead to a catastrophe.

Moscow is seriously worried by media reports about the Kiev regime's plans to carry out a special assault operation in the southeastern regions of the country using ultra-nationalist Right Sector units, it said in a statement. Full story

Van Rompuy says need to aid Ukraine financially during visit to Prague

PRAGUE, April 30 (Xinhua) - The President of European Council Herman Van Rompuy said Wednesday the EU should help stabilize the situation in Ukraine not only through diplomatic steps but also financially.

Van Rompuy made the remarks during his meeting with Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka in Prague. Full story"
