"Despite promise, US govt moves to classify justification for drone killing of American

The Obama administration has launched a sudden effort to keep classified additional parts of a memo outlining the legal justification for the drone killing of an American a mere week after saying it would comply with a federal ruling to release the memo.

In January 2013, a
  Federal District Court judge decided that the US Justice
  Department could keep the document classified entirely. That
  ruling stood until April 2014, when a panel of the US Court of
  Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York ordered the government
  to publicize key parts of the document that provided the legal
  rationale for the drone strike that killed Anwar
  al-Awlaki.


  Awlaki was born in New Mexico before moving to Yemen with his
  family as a child. He returned to the US again to attend college
  but eventually became a prominent Al-Qaeda propagandist who
  American intelligence officials have claimed helped plot
  terrorist attacks. He was killed by a September 2011 drone strike
  in Yemen that was authorized based on the 41-page memo, dated
  July 16, 2010.



  President Barack Obama praised the strike at the time, telling
  reporters that Awlaki’s death was a “major blow to Al-Qaeda’s
  most active operational affiliate.”



  The New York Times and American Civil Liberties Union have sought
  the release of the memo under the Freedom of Information Act.



  It has been an issue of contention of late because David Barron,
  the former Justice Department attorney who wrote the memo, was
  confirmed by the US Senate by a narrow vote last week as a judge
  on a US appeals court. A number of senators said they would only
  vote to confirm Barron if the administration agreed not to appeal
  the April decision and release a redacted version of the
  document.



  “I rise today to oppose the nomination of anyone who would
  argue that the president has the power to kill an American
  citizen not involved in combat and without a trial,” Senator
  Rand Paul said last week. “It is hard to argue for the trials
  for traitors and people who would wish to harm our fellow
  Americans. But a mature freedom defends the defenseless, allows
  trials for the guilty, and protects even speech of the most
  despicable nature.”



  In a new court filing obtained by The New York Times, however, assistant US
  attorney Sarah Normand now argues that some of the information
  the administration pledged to reveal should actually remain
  secret.



  “Some of the information appears to have been ordered
  disclosed based on inadvertence or mistake, or is subject is
  distinct exemption claims or other legal protections that have
  never been judicially considered,” she wrote.



  The Justice Department also asked that the court keep the request
  for parts of the memo to remain secret. That request was denied,
  with the judge ordering the government to unveil previously
  secret negotiations between the court and prosecutions
  deliberating which aspects of the Barron memo would remain in the
  dark.



  “It’s deeply disappointing to see the latest effort by the
  government to delay even further the release of this memo to the
  public,” New York Times attorney David McCraw told Politico. “The government reviewed the
  Second Circuit’s opinion before it was released. The court made
  redactions in response to that review. The fact that the
  government then waited five weeks to file a motion – seeking yet
  another opportunity to review what it has already reviewed – says
  volumes about the administration’s position on
  transparency.”



  Senator Mark Udall (D-Colorado) was one of the lawmakers who said
  he only voted to confirm Barron because of the administration’s
  promise that “redactions to the memo would focus on
  still-classified information – not the legal reasoning
  itself,” he told the Times.



  “I intend to hold the White House to its word,” Udall
  added."
