"‘US came to Afghanistan with TV & cash - they won’t let us go’

“The Americans never intended to help us build our country. Now Kabul is asking them not to leave Afghanistan so that the Taliban will not attack them,” a Pashtun from Kabul in his Moscow shop muses.

“Just imagine: we had 44 countries invading Afghanistan with
  modern weapons, satellite monitoring, tanks and missiles. The
  Taliban has an army of less than 20,000. We have 400,000 Afghan
  troops and 200,000 Americans with the most advanced weaponry. How
  is it possible that they can’t prevail over the Taliban?” he
  says.



  A PhD-qualified engineer by profession, he trades a range of
  Oriental items from hookahs to incense sticks. We’ve been talking
  about the elections for two hours, with visitors coming in and
  leaving without being served, and other Afghans joining our
  discussion with eagerness.



  There are only a handful of places in Moscow where you can get a
  glimpse of people from different Afghan tribes and social strata.
  One of them is a former hotel in the city suburbs housing a
  multitude of shops and firms owned by Afghans. They all retain
  close ties with their homeland, make regular visits and keep
  daily contact with their families and business partners.



  Those who do business in Russia usually have quite a good
  background and a decent profession. They work here despite the
  fact the clans they come from fought the Soviet army in
  1979-1989. But that was a long time ago. The US army has been in
  Afghanistan for 13 years and Afghans do not have much respect for
  either the Americans or those who they support.



  Endangered elections



  Elections in the east are being increasingly associated with
  terror acts and mysterious problems with vote counting.



  Ironically, political analysts may soon pick up some of the
  language used by journalists. The developments in Afghanistan and
  Iraq indicate that elections in a country with a US troop
  presence are always hailed as success, while a vote in a country
  left by US troops merely serves as a backdrop for terror attacks.



  Curiously enough, in the old Western democracies the elites
  negotiate before the elections, whereas in Afghanistan, it looks
  like the election comes prior to negotiations. This seems to be
  the only explanation as to why it takes them almost three weeks
  to count the votes, and why they’ve postponed the announcement of
  the results for the 4th time. The election took place on April 5
  and the votes were supposed to be counted by April 24. Then it
  was postponed to May 14, so that the second round could start on
  May 28.



  I’d like to remind that four years ago, it took Iraq a record
  four months to count the votes from its election. The current
  prime minister stayed in office, but his bloc in the parliament
  lost one vote to the opposition.



  The behind-the-scenes struggle continues in Afghanistan. It would
  be na?ve to believe that the Afghan independent commission is
  unable to count quickly. The clans and advisers just didn’t rush
  it, as they were fighting for the second round and for the
  difference in votes.



  Right now this difference has become more distinct, when the
  conventional anti-Americanism pole represented by Abdullah
  Abdullah got the upper hand over the most pro-American candidate,
  Ashraf Ghani.



  This division is quite feeble though. Before the election they
  both had stated that they supported the presence of the US troops
  in the country. Whereas President Karzai finished his tenure with
  a patriotic gesture of refusing to sign the agreement for the US
  troop presence. He also took his brother off the presidential
  candidates’ list and directed his supporters to unlikely
  candidate Zamlai Rassoul.



  At the moment, according to another preliminary count, Abdullah
  Abdullah wins this election. He looks more or less remote from
  the occupation forces compared to other candidates. His name is
  associated with Ahmad Shakh Massoud, who was mysteriously
  murdered on September 11, 2001. Many believe he was a Mujahideen
  physician, if not a Mujahideen himself.



  Abdullah does have a flaw in his biography. From the viewpoint of
  a Pashtun, the main Afghan tribe, he is a Tajik, as is his
  mother. “Can a Tajik rule Afghanistan?” This is
  something any Pashtun would ask you, unless they are related to
  the occupation forces. Moreover, his name is related to the
  reputation of the Afghan Northern Alliance, which welcomed the US
  presence and had close cooperation with it.



  However, for Afghans one’s origin isn’t the main concern. More
  importantly, these people who really value their independence
  feel that they have been invaded, in spite of the elections,
  speeches and promises. The behind-the-scenes war which they sense
  more clearly than the foreign observers do is a part of this
  invasion.



  Difficult choice



  What do the Afghan people think of the election? Most of the
  Moscow-based Afghans are happy to discuss it, but they don’t want
  their pictures taken.



  Young Pashtuns aren’t very optimistic. I am talking to a Pashtun
  from Herat. He says he preferred Mohammad Ismail Khan, if anyone.
  He may be a Tajik but he is a Mujahideen, Herat-born and had been
  its governor for a long time.


“Otherwise they all are crooks, and all they want is to sell
  out to the Americans,” he says about the presidential
  candidates.



  I ask him to clarify what’s there to sell in Afghanistan, as none
  of the shops have any Afghan products.


“What’s there to sell? The whole of Afghanistan,” he
  answers.



  Most Afghans are convinced that their country is a crucial
  strategic center that the US wants to have just for the sake of
  it.



  A Pashtun from Kabul has no respect for either of the candidates.
  He believes there was no voter turnout at all. Some of his family
  members did go to vote, and they told him there was no frenzy
  there.



  A Pashtun called Nabi was born in Laghman. He had spent 10 years
  in prison during the Soviet presence in Afghanistan. He is an
  Afghan Marxist, and as most supporters of one Marxist fraction he
  became imprisoned when the other fraction got the upper hand.
  Just like many older Afghans, he is an underground revolutionary,
  a fighter, and a political prisoner who got self-educated while
  in prison, and his opinions are quite harsh.



  The reason he doesn’t support Abdullah is not the fact that he is
  a Tajik. “Hekmatyar is a Pashtun, but he is also a traitor,
  just like Abdullah is. And so is Sayyaf - a Pashtun and a
  traitor,” he says. Marxists are very open about using strong
  terms.


“Abdullah bears the shadow of a traitor, as he had cooperated
  with everyone, just like his commander, Massoud,” says Nabi.
  “His people sold our concessions for mineral deposits
  extraction.”


  Nabi prefers Ghani, even though he bears “a stamp of the
  American past.”


  Khusrow, a Tajik from Herat, openly chooses Abdullah because he
  is Tajik.


“His mother is Tajik, so Pashtuns regard him as a
  stranger,” he says. “They say that he, who shakes hands
  with the ruler, will come to power too,” he is trying to say
  that those people who are on a first-name basis with the
  authorities are well connected.


“Abdullah will definitely get more votes, but such people as
  Abdullah can never be president. So Ghani is more likely to
  become the leader,” he sadly says. “Pashtuns will always
  rule in Afghanistan, and all the others will play football and
  fight,” Khusrow predicts.



  His Tajik friend who comes from Kabul has moved his family to
  India.


“I’m not into politics. We didn’t vote for anyone – there is
  nobody worth voting for.”


  The Hazara brothers, Ysa and Nadyr, are split. Nadyr supports
  Abdullah out of principle.


“Pashtuns didn’t like the Taliban people as well, although
  they were Pashtuns too. I support Abdullah, not because he is
  Pashtun, but because he plans for the future,” he says.



  He likes it that Abdullah participates in elections together with
  Mouhakkik who is Hazara.


“He has always been a part of our society, he gets us. He has
  been our leader for a long time. I think Abdullah will win.
  Ghani’s deputy Sarwar Danesh is Hazara too. He is pro-Iranian,
  unlike Mouhakkik, who is not so pro-Iranian. But we just want him
  to help his people – that’s what matters.”


  He hopes Abdullah can make a good president because he is
  slightly against Pakistan and against the USA.



  Ysa doesn’t agree. “Ghani is very experienced. He is like
  Putin, who looks ahead.”


  And that’s when Ysa thinks about the flipside.


“I once asked a politician, why Russia doesn’t supply its
  missiles to Iran or Syria. He said it’s a policy. Politicians are
  not trustworthy – today they think this way, the next day they
  change their mind. Sayyaf had an agreement with the Hazara too,
  but eventually they got no protection. So the policy is like
  that: today we are friends, tomorrow we are foes.”


  He has no doubt that Ghani is going to win in the second round of
  the elections.


“Do you think Ghani will bring another USA? It was already
  brought [to Afghanistan] 13 years ago,” Nadyr argues.


“The Americans spent $600 billion in Afghanistan so they will
  not let us go. They went there to prop up their positions against
  Russia, China and Central Asia. The US has plans in Afghanistan
  for 50 years ahead. They will leave at least 10,000 troops there
  for sure. Ghani appeals to them simply because he is
  pro-American,” Nadyr says.



  Many people in Afghanistan believe the Taliban has been created
  and imposed by the US too, and it was aimed at taking over the
  country. Nadyr and Ysa have no doubts about that.


“Some of Ghani’s advisors speak out against the Hazara all
  the time. Moreover, his wife is not a Muslim, she’s from
  Lebanon,” which, by the way, is a serious point in
  Afghanistan.


“Russia came here with tanks, while the US came to
  Afghanistan with television and cash. It takes a long time for
  them, but eventually they get what they want. They set up a base
  here. People are against them and want them to leave, to which
  Americans respond, “OK, we are leaving.” But there are always
  those who ask them to stay,” Nadyr says, meaning both
  candidates are willing to sign the agreement on further presence
  of the US troops.


“They started the mess in Ukraine while being here and now
  make troubles in Dagestan. They aim at stirring up troubles in
  order to isolate Russia from the rest of the world. The Afghan
  people understand the essence of the US policy quite well now.
  But Americans also target the young people. There are some who
  think that since Americans brought television and the internet,
  they should stay,” Ysa says, apparently not minding. He is
  among these young people.


“Nothing happens the way we want,” Ysa admits. And
  that’s true – nobody has asked the Afghan people in the last 35
  years what they really want.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
