"Cameron says Brussels ‘too big and too interfering’ in wake of EU elections

Surfing on a wave of euro skepticism following the EU elections, UK Prime Minister David Cameron has called Brussels too big and bossy. The 28-nation bloc voted a record number of EU Parliament seats to anti-integration parties in the recent elections.


  Prime Minister Cameron is in Brussels for an informal meeting to
  discuss the results of last week’s EU elections. Addressing the
  press in the Belgium capital, Cameron criticized the EU, saying
  it had got too big for its boots.
  “We need an approach that recognizes that Brussels has become
  too big, too bossy, too interfering. It should be ‘nation states’
  wherever possible, Europe only where necessary, and we need
  people running this organization who really understand
  that,” he told reporters.



  The results of the recent EU elections showed a marked swing
  towards euro skepticism in the 28-nation bloc, as around 30
  percent of the seats went to parties with anti-integration
  policies.
  
  In Britain, the UK Independence Party triumphed in the elections,
  receiving 27.5 percent of the vote. Cameron previously described
  UKIP as “a bunch of loonies and closet racists.” But now
  he says such results could not be simply “shrugged off”
  and this was a sign something needed to be changed in the
  leadership of the EU.
  
  Elsewhere, the most notable was arguably France’s National Front
  Party headed by Marine Le Pen, which has been criticized for
  racist and xenophobic views. The National Front garnered 25
  percent of the vote with Le Pen describing her party’s victory as
  a prelude to a political “earthquake” in the European
  Union.
  
  European leaders must now address the issue of who will replace
  European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso when he steps
  down from the post in October. Cameron is strongly opposed to the
  current favorite, former prime minister of Luxembourg,
  Jean-Claude Juncker, who is backed by German Chancellor Angela
  Merkel.
  
  Junker announced on Sunday that he had the only legitimate right
  to the presidency given that his party, The European People’s
  Party, has the majority of seats in the parliament, with 212 out
  of 751.
  
  Leader of UKIP Nigel Farage has claimed that there is “nobody
  more fanatical about building the United States of Europe
  than Junker and his candidacy has come “just at the moment
  that the European electors have made it clear they are going in
  the wrong direction.”
  
  Anti-EU sentiment has been on the rise in the UK following the
  financial crisis that has crippled parts of the Union. Cameron
  has promised to push for a renegotiation of the conditions of
  Britain’s membership to the Union and limit Brussels’s powers.
  
  Last year, the UK Prime Minister promised he would hold a
  referendum to decide Britain’s future in the EU, should his
  Conservative Party get the majority of the vote in next year’s
  general election. Cameron said on Monday that he would not bring
  the referendum forward, after his party came third in the EU
  elections, beaten by Labour and Ukip."
