"White House concedes privacy protections lacking in big data report

The White House published a long-awaited report on the collection of big data Thursday and, while it mentioned the positive side of data collection, the Obama administration also made a number of recommendations to ensure Americans' safety is protected.


  The findings come after a January promise from President Obama
  that the administration would investigate just how much
  rapidly-advancing technology is impacting American society, and
  how those developments affect individuals.



  Some possible upsides from big data in the future presented by
  the report are encouraging. It concluded that
  collection efforts could ultimately help cure diseases,
  discourage criminals, make businesses more efficient, cut waste
  in the federal government, and enhance the education system for
  young people.



  Big data – an all-encompassing term that references the
  always-growing volume and comprehensiveness of information – is
  proof that a free internet is essential to society, the report
  found. Yet the potential hazards might be as worrisome as the
  benefits.



  When former US National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden
  leaked classified documents revealing extensive surveillance
  efforts both at home in America and abroad, international
  internet users quickly learned that the data they sent so
  willingly was in fact being watched.



  Partly inspired by the backlash, Obama picked senior White House
  adviser John Podesta to lead the study group – including the
  commerce secretary, energy secretary, science adviser, and
  economic adviser – which also consulted academics, privacy
  advocates, technology executives, and civil rights groups.



  Thursday’s report included six recommendations, most of which
  address lingering privacy concerns: advance the Consumer Privacy
  Bill of Rights, pass national data breach legislation, extend
  privacy protection to non-US persons, ensure data collected on
  students in schools is used for educational purposes, extend
  technical expertise to stop discrimination, and amend the
  electronic communications privacy act.



  “Consumers deserve clear, understandable, reasonable
  standards for how their personal information is used in the big
  data era,” the first recommendation stated. “We
  recommend the department of Commerce take appropriate
  consultative steps to seek stakeholder and public comment on what
  changes, if any, are needed to the Consumer Privacy Bill of
  Rights, first proposed by the president in 2012.”



  The report contains only a single passing reference to the
  Snowden leak during an explanation of security breach, instead
  focusing on the collection practices of Google, Facebook, and
  other online giants.



  “It was our task to look at these other sectors,”
  Podesta told the Washington Post, adding that “it’s in no way
  hypocritical” for the administration not to address the NSA
  dragnet.



  Privacy advocates reveled in the report’s suggestion to amend the
  Electronic Communications Privacy Act “to ensure the standard
  of protection for online, digital content is consistent with that
  afforded in the physical world.”



  “The report lays the groundwork for keeping everyone’s
  emails, texts and photos private and secure,” Christopher
  Calabrese, legislative counsel at the American Civil Liberties
  Union, told USA Today. “Now Congress and the
  administration need to make this vision a reality by enacting
  ECPA reform without any loopholes.”"
