"IMF gives green light for $17 bn Ukraine aid package

The International Monetary Fund has approved a two-year $17.1 billion loan package for Ukraine. The immediate disbursement of $3.2 billion will allow Ukraine to avoid a potential debt default.


  The IMF’s 24-member board agreed to the two-year program to aid
  Ukraine’s troubled economy on Wednesday.



  The approval gives the green light for the immediate release of
  $3.2 billion to Ukraine, which will allow the nation not to fall
  into default, Reuters reports. More than half of that money will
  be dedicated to supporting the country's budget.



  The package will open up loans from other donors totaling around
  $15 billion. The goal is for Ukraine to use the money to
  stabilize its economy.


The authorities' economic program supported by the Fund aims
  to restore macroeconomic stability, strengthen economic
  governance and transparency, and launch sound and sustainable
  economic growth, while protecting the most vulnerable, the
  IMF said in a statement.



  IMF managing director Christine Lagarde commented on the aid
  package, stating that the plan may come with geopolitical and
  implementation risks.


On the implementation front, we are taking all the
  precautions we can in order to mitigate those risks,
  Lagarde told reporters on Wednesday. On the geopolitical
  front, clearly the bilateral international support, and the
  cooperation of all parties, will be extremely helpful to
  reinforce the position of the economy of Ukraine.”

We believe that Ukraine has an opportunity to seize the
  moment, to break away from previous practices, both from the
  fiscal, from the monetary, and from the governance point of
  view,” Lagarde added.



  Ukraine’s crisis was exacerbated after months of anti-government
  protests and Crimea’s referendum to join Russia.



  The country's economy is forecasted to contract by three percent
  due to the chaos and lack of order, according to Ukrainian
  authorities. The nation's output dropped 1.1 percent in the first
  quarter of 2014.



  The ongoing protests, especially in the east of the country, are
  not helping the nation get its economy back on track. In fact,
  Ukraine’s acting President Aleksandr Turchinov said on Wednesday
  that Kiev’s government cannot control the situation in the east of the
  country, and called to speed up the creation of regional militias
  loyal to Kiev.



  Lagarde noted that further sanctions against Russia may harm
  Ukraine's economy even further, as its neighboring country is a
  key export market for Ukraine.


Clearly on the front of sanctions, anything that undermines
  the economic situation of the country will jeopardize the
  implementation of the program, which is why we very strongly
  encourage the parties to negotiate, to come to terms,
  Lagarde said.



  'Bold program of reforms'



  Lagarde argued that Ukraine has already shown its ability to
  undertake “comprehensive reforms,” listing a few of the
  sacrifices that have been made.


“Whether it was a question of letting the exchange rate
  float, whether it was a question of reforming the procurement
  law, whether it was a question of modifying the price of gas to
  customers or to corporate. They’ve (Ukrainian government) done
  all these things to demonstrate their determination to endorse a
  very bold program of reforms,” Lagarde stated.



  The IMF money comes with stringent terms, asking for various cuts
  and economic reforms. In the case of Ukraine, the requirements
  include a 50 percent increase in the price of gas for households,
  as well as a quick pension reform and lower government spending.



  The World Bank warned on April 10 that the loan terms set by
  the IMF would cut 2014 consumption in Ukraine by 8 percent, as
  well as erode capital investment.



  The increased cost of household gas and district heating
  “will affect purchasing power and limit the government’s
  ability to boost capital spending this year. Thus, in 2014, we
  expect to see a decline in both consumption and fixed
  investment,” the World Bank said in a statement.



  Earlier in April, Ukraine’s finance minister, Oleksandr Shlapak,
  said that paying
  off debt to Russia would not be a top priority for Ukraine
  when it secured its first tranche of International Monetary (IMF)
  bailout cash.



  Ukraine’s total debt to Russia, including the $2.2 billion bill
  for gas, now stands at $16.6 billion, Prime Minister Dmitry
  Medvedev said.



  Back in December, before the Ukrainian protests turned into a
  nationwide crisis, Russia’s President Vladimir Putin announced
  that the Russian government would essentially buy $15 billion in Ukrainian debt by investing in
  Ukrainian bonds, using money from Russia's National Welfare Fund.
  The announcement came after a meeting with then-President Viktor
  Yanukovich in Moscow.



  The deal included a 33 percent discount for natural gas, which
  could have save the country $7 billion in 2014. The agreement was
  hailed by then-Prime Minister Azarov as saving Ukraine from
  economic ruin.



  Protests in Kiev began in November when Ukraine backed out of a
  trade negotiation deal with the EU in favor of a debt deal with
  Russia – a move interpreted by Ukrainians as a decisive step away
  from integration with the EU."
