"VIENNA, May 30 (Xinhua) -- The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on Friday said it lost contact with four more of its observers in eastern Ukraine.

In a statement, the institution said it lost contact with four members of its Luhansk-based Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) team, as well as one Ukrainian language assistant traveling in two vehicles.

The team was stopped in the town of Severodonetsk (100km north of Luhansk) by armed men, OSCE noted.

Four other observers from the SMM, last heard from on the evening of May 26 on their way to Donetsk, are still missing, according to OSCE.

However, Interfax news agency quoted the self-styled leader of the People's Front in Lugansk region Alexei Chmilenko as saying on Friday that four OSCE observers that were detained a few days ago and taken to Lugansk for document checks have been released after it was confirmed that they are indeed representatives of the international organization, not involved in provocation.

Related:

UN concerned over dramatic increase in deadly fighting in E. Ukraine

UNITED NATIONS, May 28 (Xinhua) -- A top UN official on Wednesday reported a dramatic increase in deadly fights in eastern Ukraine, which caused deaths and injuries on both sides.

In the UN Security Council's first meeting on Ukraine after the latest presidential election there, Jeffrey Feltman, UN's under-secretary-general for political affairs, also urged the international community to use the outcome of the elections as an opportunity to unite in support of a peaceful, stable, prosperous and united Ukraine. Full story

China to continue playing constructive role in settling Ukraine crisis: envoy

A Chinese envoy said here on Wednesday that China respects the Ukrainian people's choice in the country's presidential election and will continue to play a constructive role in settling the Ukraine crisis.

Wang Min, China's deputy permanent representative to the UN, made the remarks while addressing an open meeting of the Security Council on the situation in the Eastern European country. Full story

Russia urges for prompt end of bloodshed in Ukraine

MOSCOW, May 28 (Xinhua) -- Russia on Wednesday urged for immediate stop of bloodshed in eastern Ukraine, which claimed increasing lives with military operation there gaining momentum.

(Russian Foreign Minister Sergei) Lavrov pointed out that the authorities in Kiev have no justification for continuing their punitive operation in the southeast of the country, which now involves the use of heavy weapons and military aircraft and has led to dozens of fatalities, including among civilians, the ministry said in a statement, referring to a phone conversation between Lavrov and his German counterpart Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Full story"
