"Moscow: Kiev's reaction obstructs OSCE efforts to resolve Ukraine crisis

Kiev's reaction has jeopardized the OSCE’s efforts to start an inclusive national dialogue in Ukraine, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.


  Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has expressed “deep
  concern” at Kiev’s official reaction to proposals on
  resolving the Ukrainian crisis reached by President Putin and
  OSCE Chairperson-in-Office and Swiss President Didier Burkhalter
  during negotiations in Moscow on Wednesday.


Reaction to the results of the Putin-Burkhalter meeting is a
  matter of deep concern as it effectively puts into question the
  prospects of the OSCE's efforts to launch an inclusive national
  dialogue,” Lavrov said in a phone call with his German
  counterpart, Frank-Walter Steinmeier.


“Lavrov stressed that President Putin's call to
  representatives of southeast regions of Ukraine, supporters of
  federalization, to postpone the May 11 referendum, creates
  favorable possibilities to start substantive dialogue, including
  the OSCE roadmap of the settlement of the Ukrainian crisis
  proposed by the Swiss chairmanship of the OSCE,” Russia’s
  Foreign Ministry said.



  The international community “in general” positively
  reacted to the negotiation’s results in Moscow, Russia’s Foreign
  Ministry stressed, adding that Moscow considers this a good sign
  and evidence of the international community's interest in solving
  the Ukrainian crisis.


“But from Kiev, there were only phoney attempts to make
  snarky remarks by Arseniy Yatsenuk. From the side of Ukraine’s
  Foreign Ministry, there were obscure statements that without
  Ukraine no one can discuss political deadlock in this
  country,” the ministry said.


“It looks like in Kiev they forgot that the situation in
  Ukraine is in the focus of all responsible international
  partners,” the statement said. “Obviously, Yatsenyuk and
  his team should first of all talk to the Ukrainian people, not
  ‘from above’ but as equals, without annoying ultimatums and
  illegal use of force.”


  Moreover, Kiev's reaction bluntly contradicts the agreement
  reached in Geneva, the foreign ministry noted.


“Such a position is in direct conflict with the fundamental
  principle of the Geneva Declaration, which begins with the
  requirements of the termination of any use of force,” the
  ministry said.



  Furthermore Kiev's “unwillingness to listen to the
  international community” is undermining the efforts of the
  OSCE, because it is unlikely protesters in the south-east of
  Ukraine will “cooperate with the regime which declared them
  all terrorists and sent an army against them.”


  On Wednesday, acting Ukrainian PM Arseniy Yatsenyuk expressed
  dismay that the crisis was discussed in Moscow without
  representatives from Kiev or its allies, the US and the EU. He
  expressed hopes that the OSCE, which came up with its roadmap,
  will accept Kiev’s plan of action that was proposed shortly after
  talks between Putin and Burkhalter in Moscow.



  Yatsenyuk said the plan was worked out by the country’s acting
  Foreign Minister Andrey Deshchitsa. He proposed organising
  “national unity roundtables” with “representatives
  of all political forces from all regions and civil society”
  and expressed hope “OSCE experience” will help in
  organizing such gatherings.



  The US State Department was quick to support the idea of
  “roundtables” as a means of defusing tensions in
  Ukraine, with deputy spokesperson Marie Harf telling foreign
  journalists at a briefing she hopes such discussions will help
  Ukrainians decide their own future, Itar-tass reports.



  At the same time Kiev opted to ignore calls from President Putin
  to stop the military operation in the southeast of the country.


“The counterterrorist operation will go on regardless of any
  decisions by any subversive or terrorist groups in the Donetsk
  region,” Andrey Parubiy told reporters in Kiev."
