"MOSCOW, May 21 (RIA Novosti), Nastassia Astrasheuskaya — As instability plagues Ukraine ahead of Sunday’s upcoming presidential election, all sides – local, Russian and European – are united in protecting children, many of whom have been involved in the deadly protests in Kiev and the country's southeastern regions against their will.

Children's rights organizations, such as United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and international non-profit SOS Children's Villages in Ukraine and in Russia, as well as Russian and Ukrainian politicians have all voiced concern about the effect of the nation's political crisis on the country’s youth.

It is dangerous and detrimental to a child’s health and wellbeing to be a witness to or become swept up into violence. That is why UNICEF calls on all parties to do their utmost to prevent and make sure that children are not involved or used in demonstrations or witnesses to violence, UNICEF Representative in Ukraine Yukie Mokuo told RIA Novosti on Tuesday.

At least one child was reported dead in Odessa on May 2, when clashes between pro-federalization activists and Euromaidan supporters led to a fire at the House of Trade Unions, killing 48 people trapped inside and injuring 214 others.

Five other children have suffered in protests in the country's Eastern Donetsk, Luhansk and Slaviansk regions. Luhansk and Donetsk proclaimed themselves independent people’s republics shortly after demonstrations broke out. Some of the protests led to deadly clashes, according to SOS Children's Villages in Ukraine.

“We are deeply upset that children get involved in the conflicts in Kiev, Luhansk and other places. Unfortunately, some parents have not been smart enough not to bring their kids to protests. As a result, children suffer both mentally and physically,” Managing Director at SOS Children’s Villages in Ukraine Andrey Chuprikov told RIA Novosti on Monday.

The Ukrainian branches of the charity are offering help to the mostly abandoned and orphaned children in the so-called villages in Kiev and Luhansk, two cities with opposing political views. The Kiev authorities want more closely integrate with Europe, while the majority of the mostly Russian-speaking population of Luhansk are federalization supporters.

Sponsored solely by Western countries, the organization, which has 133 offices worldwide, including in Russia, has recently been in consultations with its Moscow office.

“We have nothing to argue about with Russia, we have a common goal, and that is to protect our children,” said Chuprikov.

The organization has been advocating for the Ukrainian parliament to disallow the involvement of children in protests, saying “demonstrations sites are no place for children.” Meanwhile, it has set special bus routes for those under SOS Children’s Villages’ supervision in Luhansk to avoid them passing through the city center.

Schools and kindergartens were interrupted on the days of the biggest clashes. Medicine has become less available for children as costs have skyrocketed due to heavy inflation in the past few months, Chuprikov said. The country's National Bank forecasts a 15-percent inflation rate this year.

Ukraine's Central bank has depleted most of its reserves, which went from $40 billion in 2011 to $15 billion in March this year, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).

The region's growing unemployment, currently standing at 8 percent, and overall economic decline, which European Bank for Reconstruction and Development predicts to stand at 7 percent this year, has worsened the situation of the nearly 100,000 orphans in Ukraine even further, planting fears among teenagers about to step into adult life.

They show signs of psychological instability, they have breakdowns, they lose hope, Chuprikov said.

One of the mothers at the organization, Valya, said all her children – no matter their age – were stressed out.

They have problems sleeping and when we asked them to draw themselves they draw themselves as tiny children; it's like they are trying to hide, she wrote on the NGO's website, adding that children watch news and keep asking why people were being killed.

UNICEF is currently working on a proposal to provide counseling for families and children at local schools. It also provides hygiene kits and family kits for internally displaced children and families, conducts educational and recreational activities for children in the accommodation centers, and supports a hotline in the country.

During the month of April, a national hotline for children supported by UNICEF received 1,378 calls, which indicates increased levels of anxiety, UNICEF's Mokuo said.

Earlier this week, Russia’s children’s rights ombudsman Pavel Astakhov said he would address the United Nations and the OSCE, underlining that the Geneva conventions relative to the protection of civilians were not being implemented in Ukraine. His statement came after the Russian Foreign Ministry stepped in to return an 11-year-old Russian girl from besieged Slaviansk, where she had been staying with relatives since February.

Slaviansk, a town in Donetsk region, remains under attack from Ukrainian armed forces, forcing residents to flee to cellars as shootings break out around them. More than 50 people have been hospitalized since the start of the military operation in the city in April.

Late on Tuesday, Slaviansk people's mayor Vyacheslav Ponomaryov suggested that all children be taken away from the city and placed in nearby recreation camps, as it prepares for difficult days approaching the early presidential vote on May 25. The vote, encouraged by the West and less so by Russia, will decide on the successor of the elected president Viktor Yanukovych, ousted in a coup in February."
