"?Backdoor dealing ‘weakened’ NSA reform bill ahead of US House vote

Secret negotiations between US House leadership and the Obama administration has “watered down” legislation intended to reform US government surveillance of domestic phone data, privacy advocates say, as the bill heads for a vote in the House this week.


  The bill – the USA Freedom Act – was originally intended to prohibit the US government’s
  large-scale collection of domestic telephone data. This version
  was passed through the US House Judiciary and Intelligence
  Committees this month accompanied by general support from the
  privacy and civil liberties community.



  Yet recent closed-door negotiations between the leadership of the
  Republican-led House and the Obama administration have left the
  bill with sapped privacy protections that do not adequately
  address mass surveillance abuses, privacy advocates say.



  The USA Freedom Act’s sponsor, Rep. James Sensenbrenner, filed on
  Tuesday a manager’s amendment with the House Rules
  Committee in an effort for it to get consideration on the House
  floor instead of the bill passed by the Judiciary and
  Intelligence Committees.



  The amendment expands from the agreed-upon USA Freedom Act
  language the definition for when government officials can search
  collected phone metadata records.



  The new language modifies the prohibitions on bulk collection of
  domestic data to allow government officials to search for
  Americans’ phone records using a “a discrete term, such as a
  term specifically identifying a person, entity, account, address,
  or device, used by the Government to limit the scope of the
  information or tangible things sought.”


  This revised standard for the USA Freedom Act’s reform of
  surveillance is too broad and leaves privacy protections at risk,
  says Kevin Bankston, of the New America Foundation’s Open
  Technology Institute.


“We cannot in good conscience support this weakened version
  of the bill, where key reforms—especially those intended to end
  bulk collection and increase transparency—have been substantially
  watered down,” he said in a release
  on Tuesday.



  The Sensenbrenner amendment may bar the US intelligence community
  from the kind of vast, national surveillance seen before
  revelations of National Security Agency spying, but “it is
  ambiguous enough to allow for large scale collection,” said
  Harley Geiger, senior counsel at the Center for Democracy and
  Technology.


“Put another way, [the bill’s new language] may ban ‘bulk’
  collection of all records of a particular kind, but still allow
  for ‘bulky’ collection impacting the privacy of millions of
  people,” said Robyn Greene, policy counsel for the Open
  Technology Institute.



  The Sensenbrenner amendment also weakens the bill’s transparency
  provisions which outlined how much technology companies can
  disclose to customers about the extent of government requests of
  user data.


“Those transparency reporting provisions have been weakened
  to the point that they are almost identical to what the Justice
  Department has already agreed to let the companies report,”
  Bankston said. “Yet those bare-bones reports that the
  companies are already issuing, which lump a bunch of different
  surveillance authorities into a single rounded number, have done
  little to restore the lost trust of Internet users here and
  abroad.”


  The House will vote on the USA Freedom Act on Thursday, National
  Journal reported citing a spokesman for Majority
  Leader Eric Cantor.



  Lawmaker proposes backup bill



  Meanwhile, opponents of the secretive negotiations are moving to
  counter the weakened surveillance reform bill.



  Libertarian US congressman Justin Amash (R) has filed an amendment to the National Defense
  Authorization Act (NDAA) that is “materially identical”
  to the version of the USA Freedom Act that was advanced by the
  House Judiciary and Intelligence Committees earlier this month.



  Amash’s amendment, cosponsored by Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D) and
  Rush Holt (D), aims to deny funding from intelligence programs
  sanctioned under Section 215 of the US Patriot Act, authored by
  Sensenbrenner in 2001, except in certain circumstances.


We are offering amendments to the defense authorization bill
  to shut down the NSA's bulk collection of Americans' private
  information, said Amash spokesman Will Adams, according to the MLive.com.



  The NDAA is also set for consideration on the House floor this
  week, reportedly on Wednesday.



  The House Rules Committee is scheduled to consider on Tuesday the
  rules of debate on the NDAA bill and whether or not to accept
  Amash amendment.



  The NSA’s bulk collection of domestic telephony metadata was the
  first revelation that was published nearly one year ago among the
  leaked documents supplied by former intelligence contractor
  Edward Snowden."
