"‘Ukraine needs a revision of Constitution, not elections’

If Ukraine holds an election and gets a president, it will still have the same Parliament and the same Constitution, which won’t help to resolve the crisis, Jack Matlock Jr., former US ambassador to the Soviet Union, told RT.

RT:In terms of the disagreements over the
  Ukrainian crisis it could be said there is a re-start of the Cold
  War. Do you agree with that?

Jack Matlock: No, I don’t. Although I know that
  much of the rhetoric, many of the words sound like we are
  returning to the Cold War, but during the Cold War we had a
  worldwide confrontation of two ideologies and a tremendously
  dangerous arms race. We don’t have it anymore. This is a very
  tragic situation, in an important area of the world, but it’s not
  a worldwide confrontation. We don’t have an arms race, I don’t
  think there is going to be one. It is clear that whatever
  happens, the West is certainly not going to use force now. Most
  of us realize that what is going on there affects mainly Ukraine
  and Russia. I think it’s wrong to compare it to the Cold War.
  However, it has raised passions, and we hear statements that
  sound like the Cold War, but I think we have to understand this
  is quite different.


RT:If we move on and think about Western
  sanctions imposed on Russia. Do you think it’s an effective
  measure in terms of resolving this conflict?

JM: With the Western leaders having said “If
  certain things happen, there will have to be sanctions”,
  they have to carry something out or they will look weak to their
  own people. One needs to understand that the domestic politics is
  pushing those things. However, I do think that the main
  consequences are going to be in the situation itself and how it
  develops. In other words, if there is a cost to Russia or to
  Ukraine it is going to come about at the cost of their actions
  and not primarily the sanctions from outside.


RT:Is it possible to take proper
  presidential polls at the moment?

JM: It is looking less and less likely. I would
  think that it would be wise for all parties to organize, if they
  can, a revision of the Constitution, then a referendum. Even if
  they get a president, they will still have the same Parliament
  and they will still have the Constitution to do.



  On the other hand, this has to be something that the Ukrainians
  agree upon, this is something that outsiders cannot impose. This
  is one of the problems we have. No leader has yet emerged that
  can unify the country and the last one they had who seemed to be
  supported by Russia was a thief and probably more than that. He
  seemed to have stolen billions from them. The problem is there,
  but outside interference whether from Russia or from the West has
  tended to divide. And I think that’s unfortunate.


RT:Many politicians, especially Russian
  politicians, are saying that there is no point in holding any
  international talks on how to resolve the crisis unless the
  Ukrainian opposition takes part. Do you agree with that?

JM: I would hope that if you can get an
  agreement between Russia, the EU and the US, one can go to the
  Ukrainians and say “This is what you have to do”.
  Whether it would work, I don’t know. But it does seem to me that
  one needs to keep the diplomacy going, and frankly, I think more
  has to be done quietly. Too much has been in public
  announcements. Back when we were ending the Cold War, the very
  sensitive issues we were doing privately and we tried to settle
  them without having a lot of controversy publicly. If we could go
  back to that, and it is going to be hard, because obviously our
  leaders have made a lot of public statements, and some of them
  have been more personally directed than it should be. But I would
  never say it’s too late for diplomacy. But I do think an
  effective diplomacy has to be quiet diplomacy and not arguing
  every point out in public.


RT:There were recent talks in Geneva with
  some agreements set. So it was diplomacy but why it didn’t work
  out? The west and Russia are blaming each other for that…

JM: I think some of the agreements were
  interpreted differently by different people. When you speak of
  withdrawal from the seized buildings, one side would say that
  means those seized recently and another would say that is
  conditional, those seized in the West earlier. The problem is
  finding the formula that will be accepted by all sides and we
  haven’t been able to do that yet.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
