"Authorities advise state companies to send employees to Russian resorts - Putin

State corporations have been advised to send their staff on vacations to Russian resorts, and President Vladimir Putin has told reporters that in his view private Russian companies should follow suit.


  The president was speaking at a media forum in St Petersburg
  organized by the United People’s Front – a relatively new
  political movement uniting those who support Putin’s ideas but
  choose not to join the United Russia party.



  Answering a question about recent rumors of bans on foreign
  vacations by various ministries and state-owned companies, Putin
  said that there were certain steps in this direction, but they
  were not restrictive. “As far as the companies with state
  participation are concerned, we have already sent them our
  recommendations on how they could organize holidays for their
  employees in our domestic resorts,” the Russian leader said.
  He also noted that private Russian companies also should not shun
  the domestic resorts: “We should direct our companies towards
  sending their staff and their children to our health spas.”



  “A lot has been done for this in Sochi, tens of billions of
  rubles were invested in the infrastructure, in construction of
  hotels - both the high class and ordinary, but attractively
  priced and of high quality,” the head of state told
  reporters.



  Earlier this week several Russian newspapers quoted unnamed
  sources in the Defence Ministry, Interior Ministry and several
  state law enforcement agencies as saying that there was a ban on
  employees going on vacations abroad.



  Russian officials quickly dismissed these reports as untrue, but
  some details emerged from the subsequent explanations.



  Nikolai Partrushev who heads Russia’s Security Council said that
  no travel bans had been imposed in any government department. The
  official added, however, that such restrictions had been pondered
  but only for those who had access to state secrets.



  The Federal Drug Control agency said that its directors only
  asked staff to pay attention to a recent release in which the
  Foreign Ministry asked Russian citizens who suspected that they
  could have conflicts with US justice to abstain from travelling
  to countries that have valid extradition agreements with the
  United States.



  The Interfax news agency quoted an unnamed source in the Interior
  Ministry as saying that the ban existed, but it was classified
  and only concerned officers with high security clearance."
