"‘High-level hooligan:’ Chinese media vents spleen over US cybercrime charges

Traditionally reserved Beijing has heaped scorn on the US, calling it a ‘robber playing cop,’ after Washington filed criminal charges against Chinese military officers accused of conducting economic espionage against major US companies.


  Chinese rhetoric crashed out of the gates on Wednesday after the
  US Justice Department took the unprecedented move of publishing,
  together with a 48-page indictment, the photographs of five
  Chinese military officers it suspects of committing cybercrimes
  against a number of household-name US companies, including US
  Steel, Westinghouse and Alcoa.



  The wanted individuals are affiliated with Unit 61398, an elite cyber-department of the Chinese
  People's Liberation Army that attracted the condemnation of US
  officials even as the United States was conducting its own
  intensive cyber espionage against China.



  An editorial in the Global Times, a subsidiary of the People’s
  Daily, the official journal of China’s Communist Party, was
  packed with insults aimed at Washington.


We should encourage organizations and individuals whose
  rights have been infringed to stand up and sue Washington,
  the newspaper said. Regarding the issue of network security,
  the US is such a mincing rascal that we must stop developing any
  illusions about it.


  The editorial went on to label the United States a mincing
  rascal.


  Beijing summoned the US ambassador on Monday hours after the
  indictment was released, vowing to retaliate against Washington's
  actions. It also suspended a Chinese-American working group
  dealing with cyber security.


Suspending the operations of a bilateral group on cyber
  affairs is a reasonable start, but more countermeasures should be
  prepared in case Washington obstinately sticks to the wrong
  track, state news agency Xinhua said in a commentary on
  Tuesday. Otherwise, it should take full responsibility for
  the consequences of the farce that features itself as a robber
  playing cop.


  Meanwhile, the People's Daily, drawing attention to the US
  National Security Agency’s global surveillance program, exposed
  last summer by American whistleblower Edward Snowden, called
  Washington's accusations against China high-handed and
  hypocritical.


  The English-language version of the Global Times on Wednesday
  reminded in its editorial that the United States “spies both
  home and abroad with the PRISM program of the National Security
  Agency (NSA).”

“Washington was condemned by international public opinion and
  therefore its pretentious accusation against Chinese army
  officers is ridiculous,” it said.



  The newspaper revealed that Beijing is still bristling over the
  NSA surveillance, which targeted a number of Chinese
  institutions, while lamenting that more was not done to apprehend
  the architects of the NSA global spy apparatus.



  The White House “still owes an apology to Beijing” over
  the NSA hacking of its network, and Interpol should have ordered
  the arrest of “designers and implementers of the PRISM
  program, but they did not.”


  The editorial added that Washington overstepped its legal
  boundaries by posting photographs of the five Chinese army
  officers, saying their human rights were violated.


“It appears that Washington has mistaken its domestic law for
  a law applicable to the international community by directly
  indicting active-duty Chinese army officers. It has severely
  infringed their human rights.”


  The dispute marks the latest setback in relations between the
  world’s two economic superpowers, already heating up over
  Washington’s growing naval presence in waters near China.



  Although Beijing will unlikely comply with US demands to hand
  over the wanted individuals, the indictment will place severe
  restraints on where the men can travel without fear of being
  detained by those governments that have extradition agreements
  with the US."
