"State Duma factions welcome Ukraine referendum results

The results of the Sunday referendums in Ukraine’s Donetsk and Lugansk regions prove that their residents are seeking freedom and protection for their infringed rights, say the leaders of all four Russian parliamentary factions.


  The head of the State Duma committee for relations with the
  Commonwealth of Independent States (a Russia-led economic and
  political bloc where Ukraine was an observer member until
  mid-march this year), Leonid Slutsky, said Monday that the
  referendum only confirmed the information that Russian officials
  already possessed – that the overwhelming majority of people in
  Eastern and Southeastern Ukraine were opposing the Kiev regime
  and the forced union with the West. Slutskiy added that the poll
  results will be taken into consideration as Russia develops its
  new relations with Ukraine, but the major priorities of these
  relations will remain the same – stopping the bloodshed and
  prevent a humanitarian disaster.



  The MP also noted that the Duma fully supported the position of
  President Vladimir Putin, who last week called upon the
  pro-federalization forces in Donetsk and Lugansk regions to
  postpone the referendums and try to negotiate with the Kiev
  regime into suspending the military operation against the
  civilian population in its own country. However, the decision to
  hold the referendum still must be respected as such a move is
  fully within the sovereign right of the Ukrainian territories,
  Slutskiy added.



  The head of the majority United Russia faction, Duma speaker
  Sergey Naryshkin, said that the fact that Ukrainians were holding
  a referendum on federalization was a proof of their drive toward
  freedom. He added that the numerous statements that the
  referendums and their results were illegitimate do not mean that
  the referendums never took place and through these events
  millions of Ukrainians have expressed their opinion that the
  current Ukrainian state allowed the mass violation of their
  rights.



  The Communist Party faction says that the Donetsk and Lugansk
  referendums allow the self-defense units in these regions to act
  on behalf of the people. Deputy Duma speaker Ivan Melnikov noted
  that the results of the polls were even more impressive
  considering the extremely difficult and tense conditions in which
  they were held.



  “Such referendums are even more in line with the original
  referendum idea than those held by the state as these are real
  grassroots events,” Melnikov told reporters. ”If the
  share of those who support federalization is above 90 percent, it
  becomes a primary political factor that simply cannot be
  ignored,” he added, calling the event “an important
  signal flare for the fight of all southeast [Ukraine].”



  The head of the center-left parliamentary party Fair Russia,
  Sergey Mironov, said that he expected the Russian authorities to
  take a “calm and carefully considered decision” on the
  referendum results, but added that this decision will not be in
  support of those “who want to dance to Kiev’s tune written
  across the ocean.”



  Mironov said that his party was in solidarity with Ukrainians
  from Lugansk and Donetsk and respected their right to express
  their views.



  The flamboyant chairman of the populist nationalist party LDPR,
  Vladimir Zhirinovsky, told reporters that he demanded that Russia
  recognize the Ukrainian referendum results and hoped that life in
  the Southeast Ukrainian regions would become better after this
  turning point. The politician said that it was for Ukrainians
  themselves to decide their fate, but called for Russia to help
  provide security and humanitarian aid in the troubled regions.



  The weekend referendums in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions
  have showed that the majority of voters
  support self-rule, according to the official results announced
  Monday.



  Almost 90 percent of voters in the Donetsk region have endorsed
  political independence from Kiev and the number of supporters of
  self-rule in Lugansk was slightly over 96 percent, according to
  local activists who organized the polls."
