"MOSCOW, May 12. /ITAR-TASS/. The Russian Foreign Ministry urged the United States to refrain from malicious distortions, take balanced steps and adhere to common sense with regard to the Convention on the Prohibition of Biological and Toxin Weapons (CBTW).

“On May 7, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs (Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia and Emerging Threats) held a hearing under a tendentious title of ‘Assessing the Biological Weapons Threat: Russia and Beyond’. We see no need to respond to all the concoctions made during that propaganda event, but think it advisable to dwell upon two points,” the ministry said.

“Under the Protocol, all CBTW-related biological facilities in the member states are supposed to be declared and verified on the ground by inspection groups from the Technical Secretariat of the Organization for the Prohibition of Biological and Toxin Weapons which is being created now. Verification inspections under the Protocol would give the states more confidence with regard to compliance with the Convention and help to resolve existing concerns,” the ministry said.

“It is bewildering that as the US is rejecting such a fair and clear mechanism, certain representatives of the American establishment are continuing to demand unilateral access to Russian biological facilities. Such demands are inappropriate and unacceptable,” the ministry said.

“In addition, we would like to note that grossly distorted interpretations were made at the hearing with regard to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s article ‘Being Strong: National Security Guarantees for Russia’ published in Rossiyskaya Gazeta on February 17, 2012. Speaking of scientific and technical achievements and their impact on the means and methods of warfare, the article voiced Russia’s concern that such achievements abroad could be used for creating and using new weapons, including genetic ones. At the congressional hearing this thought was turned upside down and presented as Russia’s desire to create new types of biological weapons. We strongly reject such fabrications as absolutely wrong,” the ministry said."
