"MOSCOW, May 28. /ITAR-TASS/. Russia values Argentina’s position on the events in Ukraine, Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has said.

“The March debates in the UN proved this,” he said.

Russia praises relations with Argentina, Sergei Lavrov noted.

Lavrov congratulated his Argentine counterpart Hector Timerman on the May Revolution holiday.

“We value personal contacts between the presidents of both countries,” he said on Wednesday.

“We maintain intensive trade, economic and humanitarian contracts due to the fact that the Russian community - the largest in Latin America - lives in Argentina,” Lavrov said.

For his part, Timerman said Argentina values Russia. “We maintain close relations and coordinate our positions at different international forums,” he said.

“The leaders of both countries maintain close contacts at different summits such as the G20,” Timerman said.

He expressed hope for continuing the dialogue on a wide range of issues.

Strategic partnership based on common positions unites Argentina and Russia, he said.

“During the meeting, we thoroughly studied bilateral and international relations, including regional problems,” Timerman said.

“We’re confident that it is necessary to build relations on a multi-polar basis. It is unacceptable to use the policy of double standards,” he said.

Timerman emphasized the importance of signing a joint statement in which the sides pledged not to be the first to deploy weapons in outer space.

The parties agreed to intensify bilateral relations, strengthen business cooperation and expand political contacts, he said.

Timerman expressed hope that Argentina and Russia would soon sign agreements on the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, scientific exchanges and cooperation in other fields.

He thanked Russia for understanding Argentina’s position on the Malvinas Islands.

Commenting on the Argentina-UK dispute, Lavrov said, “It is necessary to resume talks on this issue as soon as possible in order to resolve the dispute by peaceful means."
