"Ukraine receives first ˆ100mn of ‘exceptional crisis-response’ EU aid

The European Commission issued Ukraine a ˆ100mn loan, the first tranche of aid part of a larger ˆ1.61bn macroeconomic package to help support economic reform focusing on anti-corruption, energy subsidies, financial sector reform, and trade and taxation.


  The next ˆ500 million is expected to follow in the coming weeks.


The European Union is fully committed to helping Ukraine
  address its major economic challenges. This first disbursement
  marks an important step towards turning that commitment into
  reality. This assistance, which will soon be followed by a
  further ˆ500 million, provides much-needed support to Ukraine's
  efforts to cover its external financing needs,” the
  Vice-President of the European Commission Siim Kallas said in
  Brussels today.



  The macroeconomic aid is complimentary assistance provided by the
  IMF via loans financed through EU borrowing on capital markets,
  and then lent on similar conditions to the receiving country,
  according to the European Commission's statement on their website.



  The loans to Ukraine’s National Bank have a 15 year term and will
  be used to reduce the economy’s vulnerability.



  The help arrived within the two months interim Prime Minister
  Arseniy Yatsenyuk said he expected it would take Ukraine to
  receive the first money, after signing the cooperation agreement
  with the International Monetary Fund. The rest of the aid will be
  made available once the necessary legal procedures in Ukraine
  have been finalized.



  Ukraine’s economy has spun into a free-fall over the past year.
  The hryvnia has lost 30 percent since January and the country’s
  foreign currency reserves are nearly empty. In the first three
  months of 2014, the economy lost 1.1 percent. Public sector debt is
  out-of-control at 57 percent of GDP.



  Ukraine has also received $3.2 billion from the International
  Monetary Fund, the first tranche of a $17 billion loan.



  EU ministers were gathered in Brussels to discuss decentralizing
  power in Ukraine, which has been a key issue for pro-Russia
  separatists in eastern Ukraine who feel their political voice
  isn’t represented in Kiev.



  On May 13, Ukrainian officials met with EU commission ministers
  and received assurances of ˆ1.61 billion in
  macroeconomic loans for Ukraine to help with the current critical
  economic circumstances.



  The US has also issued $1 billion in loan guarantees to Ukraine
  through its Agency for International Development (USAID)."
