"Armed group stages provocation at Ukraine-Russia border checkpoint

?Several border guards at a crossing between Ukraine and Russia have been injured in an attack staged by a group of armed men in black uniforms, despite earlier warnings of possible provocations. The attackers set the checkpoint on fire before retreating.


  It was a surprize that the attack on the checkpoint Izvarino on
  Russian-Ukrainian border did actually happen, despite earlier
  warnings of such provocations being planned, a source in the
  Russian power structures told RIA Novosti.


“Despite information which has appeared the day before of
  preparation of such a provocation, SBU [Security Service] of
  Ukraine together with Right Sector did carry it out after all,
  without even inventing anything new,” the source said.


“It is not the first time that Ukrainian radicals used men in
  camouflaged black uniforms, without identification marks and with
  St. George's Ribbons,” the source added implying that it is
  “no secret” for Ukrainians that men in black belong to
  ultra-nationalist groups armed and equipped by the Kiev
  authorities.



  An armed provocation on Thursday was staged by people in black
  uniforms without any insignia but bearing St. George ribbons, a
  symbol of the pro-federalization resistance, the head of Russia's
  Federal Customs Service Andrey Belyaninov confirmed to RIA.



  According to the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine, at around
  18:00 local time, two minibuses carrying around 40 men drove
  towards the Izvarino crossing, Iterfax reports. As the buses were
  going through the registration process as if about to leave
  Ukraine, the armed men, wearing black camouflage and with St.
  George's ribbons got out of the bus, surrounding the Ukrainian
  guards at gun point.



  The armed men demanded the border guard officers lay down
  weapons. The border troops however, refused to obey, and took up
  positions to defend the checkpoint. The disguised armed
  assailants threw several Molotov cocktails at the checkpoint
  before retreating and driving away back to the Ukrainian side.
  The fire at the crossing has destroyed one of the booths, but was
  soon extinguished. Ukrainian border guards suffered minor
  injuries.



  On Wednesday, a source within the Ukrainian security services,
  warned RIA about the planned provocations by members of the Right
  Sector reportedly coordinated by Ukraine's Security Services.
  According to the source a special body guard unit of
  Dnepropetrovsk governor Igor Kolomoysky was sent from Kiev to
  Donetsk to help the Right Sector stage attacks on the border
  crossings disguised as the Russian military. Furthermore, the
  staged attacks were to be taped, as to provide false evidence of
  Russian involvement. The group of about 20 men reportedly
  transported a cargo of about 200 sets of Russian military
  uniforms as well as about 70 blank Russian military IDs,
  according to the source."
