"Blasts, fierce fighting in Donetsk between pro- and anti-Kiev demos (VIDEO, PHOTOS)

There's gunfire, explosions and brutal clashes in the city of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine as fighting erupted between pro- and anti-govt protesters, RT’s stringer reports from the scene.


    Video in a minute, pro-Russia and pro-Ukraine demos have met,
    and it's ugly. #Donetskpic.twitter.com/ODfvGmhHHk
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    28, 2014


  14 people have asked for medical assistance, with several
  hospitalized, after clashes in Donetsk, the regional
  administration told Interfax-Ukraine news agency.
  
  According to Novosti Donbassa (Donbas News), eight people have
  been taken to the city’s Kalinin hospital after violence broke
  out.
  
  The website also reports of a policeman being shell-shocked due
  to handmade grenade exploding near him.



  Pro- and-anti-Kiev protest rallies took place simultaneously in
  the city.



  According to RT’s stringer Graham Phillips, there were plenty of
  masked young men on both sides, and they were clearly looking for
  a fight.



  The police failed to contain the crowd as protesters clashed with
  each other, using firecrackers, smoke grenades, baseball bats and
  sticks.



  A group of about 1,000 “neo-Nazi thugs” has come to Donetsk from
  Dnepropetrovsk on Monday to cause provocations, the press-service
  of the self-proclaimed People’s Republic of Donetsk told RT.
  “We were expecting an attack. We had objective information.
  Really, the guys arrived with baseball bats, sticks and rods.
  Those were the ultras from Dnepropetrovsk, FC Dnipro
  Dnipropetrovsk supporters. According to our info, there were also
  people from FC Dynamo Kyiv fan base. I have no information of any
  Right Sector involvement,” Vitaly Ivanov, a press-service
  member, who was at the scene, stressed.
  
  Initially, there were about 200 local anti-Kiev activists, who
  went out “to meet them halfway in order to regain the
  initiative”, he said.
  
  “More and more people joined us at an incredible pace as we made
  our way… When we reached them [pro-Kiev radicals], there were
  around 1,000 of us,” Ivanov said.
  
  According to him, the ultras were “surrounded by the police,
  which was brought, especially, for the occasion” as the
  officers on the scene were from Kirovograd region, but not from
  the Donetsk force.
  “We were received with aggression. Smoke grenades were thrown
  at us. Several people got injured. Then there were a couple of
  small scuffles with the ultras. And then they just dispersed.
  They didn’t expect such a rebuff; that there’ll be so many of
  us,” he said.



  There were around 2,000 pro-Kiev demonstrators, who were marching
  on one of the main streets of the city, RT’s Paula Slier reports
  from Donetsk.
  
  When they crossed paths with a smaller rally of anti-government
  protesters, violent clashes erupted, she said.
  
  “I was among the group that is anti-Kiev. What I saw was both
  sides with their faces covered. There were Molotov cocktails and
  stones being thrown... Among the anti-Kiev crowd people were
  shouting: ‘Crimea! Donbass! Russia!” Slier reported.



    There are injuries, and scenes of absolute brutality as both
    sides clash with each other here in #Donetskpic.twitter.com/EvGYZOf6M8
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    28, 2014"
