"Referendum results in Donetsk and Lugansk Regions show landslide support for self-rule

The results of referendums have been announced in Donetsk and Lugansk Regions, showing the majority of voters support self-rule, amid an intensified military operation by Kiev which resulted in several deaths.


  Follow RT's LIVE
  UPDATES on Eastern Ukraine



  Almost 90 percent of voters in Donetsk Region have endorsed
  political independence from Kiev, the head of the Central
  Election Commission of the self-proclaimed ‘Donetsk People’s
  Republic’, Roman Lyagin, announced.



  “Counting the ballots proved to be surprisingly easy – the
  number of people who said ‘no’ was relatively small and there
  appeared to be only a tiny proportion of spoiled ballots, so we
  managed to carry out counting quite fast. The figures are as
  follows: 89.07 percent voted ‘for’, 10.19 percent voted ‘against’
  and 0.74 percent of ballots were rendered ineligible,”
  Lyagin told journalists.



  In Lugansk Region 96.2 percent of voters supported the region’s
  self-rule, according to the final figures announced by the local
  election commission.



    This is the pile for all the yes votes :) #Donetskpic.twitter.com/7wusyG8VK3
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 11, 2014


  Despite fears that amid Kiev’s intensified military crackdown –
  which killed at least two civilians on referendum day – the
  turnout will be low, in both of the region it was unexpectedly
  high. In Donetsk it reached 74.87%, while in Lugansk the central
  election commission says 75% of eligible voters came to the
  polling stations.



  With such a huge turnout, the referendums have been recognized as
  valid by both election commissions.



  The acting president of Ukraine, Aleksandr Turchinov, has
  condemned as a “farce” referendums in the Donetsk and Lugansk
  regions.



  “This propaganda farce won’t have any legal consequences,
  except for criminal charges for its organizers,” Turchinov
  said, Interfax reported.



  Following the referendum, officials of the self-proclaimed
  Donetsk People’s Republic have not ruled out that in case the
  situation in the region deteriorates, they may have to request
  peacekeeping forces to be deployed.


“We will try to cope with it on our own; we don’t want this
  confrontation to increase, especially on our territory,”
  Denis Pushilin, co-chairman of the Donetsk People’s Republic,
  said. If the situation deteriorates, we reserve the right to
  ask for a peacekeeping contingent,” he added.



  Pushilin has also said that within hours the Donetsk People’s
  Republic may decide if it is going to stay with Ukraine or not.
  The republic has also decided not to take part in Ukraine’s
  presidential elections on May 25, according to media reports.



  The referendums, according to Turchinov, were inspired by Russia
  to “totally destabilize the situation in Ukraine, disrupt the
  presidential election and overthrow the Ukrainian
  government.”



  Calling the regional voting on self-determination illegal, Kiev
  sent its recently formed paramilitary forces to Donetsk and
  Lugansk regions on Sunday, in an apparent move to disrupt
  referendums.



  As armored military vehicles blocked passage to polling stations,
  voting in four towns across Lugansk region was disrupted.
  In the Donetsk town of Krasnoarmeysk, the National Guard shot
  at a crowd and killed two civilians who were protesting their
  attempt to seize a polling station.



  The people’s governor of the Donetsk Region, Pavel Gubarev, told
  journalists on Sunday that Donetsk and Lugansk will emerge as new
  legal entities as a result of the referendum.
  
  “The referendum for us is about creating a new state
  paradigm,” he said.
  
  Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, the people’s mayor of Slavyansk, Donetsk
  Region, where some of the heaviest fighting between Ukrainian
  troops and self-defense activists took place, said the next step
  following the referendum would be developing closer ties with
  Russia.
  
  Russia is our brotherly nation, [we hope for] full
  interaction with Russia, including entering the Customs
  Union,” Ponomaryov said.



  One of the organizers of the referendum in Lugansk, Vasily
  Nikitin, told journalists that the region will appeal to the
  United Nations to recognize its independence, RIA Novosti
  reports. Nikitin also said Lugansk was not going to take part in
  the Ukrainian presidential election on May 25.


#Lugansk
    leader says it's probable that,after independence,the rgn 'll
    form an unit govt w/ #Donetsk.Acc.
    to him, other rgns 'll follow them
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 12, 2014


  Moscow hopes the results of the referendums in eastern Ukraine
  will instigate dialogue between Kiev and the regions that voted
  in favor of self-rule, according to the Kremlin’s press-service.



  “Moscow respects the will of the people in Donetsk and
  Lugansk and hopes that the practical realization of the outcome
  of the referendums will be carried out in a civilized manner,
  without resorting to violence, through dialogue between
  representatives of Kiev, Donetsk and Lugansk,” the statement
  reads.



  The Kremlin says it welcomes all mediation efforts, including
  those by the OSCE.



  Spokesman for the president, Dmitry Peskov earlier explained that
  Putin “did not urge, but recommended” that the votes be
  postponed. However, the spokesman says that “even considering
  the authority of the Russian president,” it was difficult
  for Donetsk and Lugansk authorities to follow his recommendation
  amid Kiev's ongoing military crackdown.



  Both the EU and US have dismissed the ballots in eastern Ukraine
  as illegal.



  “If these referenda go forward, they will violate
  international law and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The
  United States will not recognize the results of these illegal
  referenda,” US State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki said
  in a statement late on Saturday.
  
  The European Union came up with a similar comment, adding that
  the referendums ran counter to the Geneva agreement on
  de-escalation reached by Ukraine, Russia, the EU and the United
  States last month.
  
  The so-called referenda in ... parts of Lugansk and Donetsk
  Regions were illegal and we do not recognize the outcome. Those
  who organized the referenda have no democratic legitimacy,
  Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief
  Catherine Ashton, said in emailed comments to Reuters.



  OSCE Chairperson-in-Office and Swiss President Didier Burkhalter
  described the referendums in eastern Ukraine as “incompatible
  with the Ukrainian constitution and therefore illegal.”
  
  “Such provocative actions must be avoided,” Burkhalter
  said at a meeting of EU ministers in Brussels on Monday.



  Despite the rejection of the referendums by Kiev and most Western
  countries, it won’t be so easy to ignore the results,
  international affairs expert Serdja Trifkovich believes.
  
  “After the referendum it will no longer be possible for the
  regime in Kiev to say that they do not want to negotiate with the
  so-called terrorists,” Trifkovich told RT. “They will be
  forced to acknowledge internally that they are facing the level
  of agreement among the people in the eastern regions that will
  prove it rather difficult to deal with by force.”"
