"2 southeast Ukrainian regions to hold referendum May 11 as planned

The councils of the People’s Republics of two southeastern cities of Donetsk and Lugansk won’t postpone the referendums on their regions’ future as part of Ukraine and will hold them as planned on May, 11, the cities’ anti-government activists said.

“This is not our decision [of the politicians] , this is the
  decision of people of Donbas region,” said Andrey Purgin,
  one of the leaders of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s
  Republic, “People of Donbas [Region] got their chance to make
  a heroic deed and we can’t deprive them from this chance.”


  The decision of holding a referendum as scheduled was approved on
  the council of People’s Republic of Donetsk unanimously.


“People don’t trust Kiev authorities,” Miroslav Rudenko,
  one of the Donbas self-defense leaders, told Interfax, “Also
  the reaction of [coup-appointed PM Arseny] Yatsenyuk to the
  proposal of Russian President [calling for an end to Kiev’s
  military operation] was inadequate.”


  According to another self-defense leader Denis Pushilin, “the
  region’s people are determined to organize the referendum.”

“There are millions of people who are ready to cast their
  votes,” he added.



  Meanwhile, the council of the People’s Republic of another
  eastern Ukrainian city, Lugansk, has decided not to postpone the
  upcoming referendum and to organize it on May 11, said Vasily
  Nikitin, from the press service which is organizing the
  referendum.


“The referendum will take place as planned. The ballots have
  been already arrived at the polling stations,” said Nikitin.



  According to him, at the referendum people will be asked if they
  “support the state independence of People’s Republic of
  Lugansk.”


  He also added that the results of the referendum on the region’s
  future will be announced Monday.



  Leonid Slutsky, the Chairman of the Russia’s State Duma Committee
  on the Commonwealth of Independent States, said that the refusal
  of Donetsk and Lugansk regions to postpone the upcoming
  referendums is their sovereign right.



  Russia by proposing to postpone the referendums wanted only to
  “solve the conflict peacefully and not to allow further
  escalation of crisis in Ukraine,” he said.



  He added that Russia won’t send observers to Donetsk and Lugansk
  as these referendums are “their internal affair.”


  Meanwhile, the Kremlin will analyze the situation on eastern
  Ukraine’s refusal to postpone the referendum, said President
  Vladimir Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov.



  He added that Kremlin hasn’t yet received any proposals from the
  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on
  Ukraine’s crisis.



  In April, activists in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, announced
  they were planning to hold a referendum on their regions’ future
  as part of Ukraine on Sunday, May 11.



  On Wednesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin called on anti-government protesters in southeastern
  Ukraine to postpone their May 11 federalization referendums.


“We are calling for southeast Ukraine representatives,
  supporters of federalization of the country, to postpone the May
  11 referendum to create the necessary conditions for
  dialogue,” Putin said at a press conference with OSCE
  Chairperson-in-Office and Swiss President Didier Burkhalter in
  Moscow.



  Ukraine’s coup-appointed PM Arseny Yatsenyuk criticized Putin’s
  proposal to postpone the referendum.


“The fact that Russia asks to postpone some referendum? Then
  we need to inform the Russian president that Ukraine hasn’t
  planned any referendum on May 11. And if terrorists and
  separatists, who are supported by Russia, were ordered to
  postpone what wasn’t planned, then it’s their internal
  affairs,” he said.



  Kiev on Thursday said the military operation in the south-east of
  Ukraine will continue, regardless of the decision made on the
  regional referendum.



  Earlier Thursday, the head of Ukrainian National Security and
  Defense Committee, Andrey Parubiy, said that the military
  operation in the southeast of Ukraine will continue, regardless
  of the decision made on the Donetsk regional referendum.


“The counter-terrorist operation will continue unhindered,
  despite the presence of terrorist and insurgent groups in the
  Donetsk region,” he said."
