"A number of reporters, including The Washington Post's William Booth, are in Slovyansk in eastern Ukraine, where security forces killed up to five pro-Russian activists Thursday. Clashes broke out across the eastern part of the country, where there's a stronger tie to Russia than in the west.

Journalists in and around Slovyansk today are reporting relative calm. Here's what they're seeing (and ideas for people to follow on the situation in eastern Ukraine on Twitter, if that's your thing).

Ukraine mil op is running. Airborne unit with tanks sets up checkpoint outside Slovyansk. Checking trunks. Low key. pic.twitter.com/PpeSQR0iTB— William Booth (@BoothWilliam) April 24, 2014

First real #Ukrainian checkpoint I've seen in a week. En route to breaking news in #Slavianskpic.twitter.com/dGRvQoGTe8— Mitch Potter (@MPwrites) April 24, 2014

In #Slaviansk grocery right now for water. Clerk says, Buy everything you need. We're closing. Don't know when we'll reopen.— Mitch Potter (@MPwrites) April 24, 2014

This is one of 2 unguarded pro-Russia checkpoints we just passed in #Slaviansk. May not indicate anything. Dunno. pic.twitter.com/QRKs4KYtUf— Mitch Potter (@MPwrites) April 24, 2014

Just passed a Ukraine army checkpoint on the outskirts of #Sloviansk. APCs and soldiers. Friendly. Waved us through.— Matt McGarry (@mattmcgarry) April 24, 2014

Now driving through central #Sloviansk Very quiet.— Matt McGarry (@mattmcgarry) April 24, 2014

We came through checkpt on Kharkiv-Rostov highway, army guys were allowing al-jazeera to film them, access to city was open during operation— Andrew Roth (@ARothNYT) April 24, 2014

City center is calm, no sense that the army is about to roll on city hall.— Andrew Roth (@ARothNYT) April 24, 2014

Just drove through centre of Sloviansk. Relatively calm. Traffic on roads, people on streets. Noticed several pro Russia armed foot patrols.— Steve Rosenberg (@BBCSteveR) April 24, 2014

Tiny, heavily fortified entrance to pro-Russian militia HQ in #Sloviansk. Militiamen preparing for a fight. pic.twitter.com/zAYymBwT83— Muhammad Lila (@MuhammadLila) April 24, 2014"
