"US missile cruiser to enter Black Sea amid NATO drills in Eastern Europe – military source

The US missile cruiser Vella Gulf is expected to arrive in the Black Sea on May 23, a military source told a Russian news agency. Another NATO vessel is already in the area, while the French Navy’s stealth frigate will reportedly be there by late May.


  This comes as part of a wider buildup of NATO forces close to
  Russian borders against the backdrop of the Ukraine crisis.



  The American Aegis guided missile cruiser will be in the Black
  Sea in time for the Ukrainian presidential elections on May 25, a
  military-diplomatic source told Russia’s Itar-Tass news agency on
  Monday.



  “It is expected that Vella Gulf will pass through the Black
  Sea straits on May 23. According to available data, the ship will
  be performing the tasks of US Navy command in the eastern part of
  the Black Sea,” the source said.



  Another NATO vessel – a French stealth frigate, The Surcouf – is
  expected to enter the Black Sea between May 28 and May 29,
  reports RIA Novosti, also citing a military-diplomatic source.



  Vella Gulf and The Surcouf will join the French Navy's
  intelligence ship, Dupuy de Lome, which is currently in the
  waters off Bulgaria’s port city of Varna. The vessel, designed
  for radar monitoring and capable of intercepting communications,
  including phone calls and e-mails, entered the Black Sea on May
  14. Dupuy de Lome had also been present in the area from April 11
  to April 30, a Russian Navy Main Staff spokesman told Interfax
  last week.



  The US ship Vella Gulf is 172 meters long and 16 meters wide and
  can carry two multipurpose helicopters. It is also equipped with
  an Aegis air and ballistic missile defensive system, Tomahawk
  cruise missiles, antisubmarine missiles, as well as Standard-2
  and Standard-3 surface-to-air missiles.



  Vella Gulf will have to leave the Black Sea no later than June 13
  as, according to the Montreux Convention, non-riparian, military
  vessels are only allowed to stay in the region for 21 days. It
  will replace US warship USS Donald Cook which left the Black Sea
  at the end of April.



  The Pentagon claimed that during the Donald Cook’s deployment it
  was subject to a number of fly-overs by a Russian Su-24 aircraft. The craft
  reportedly made 12 low passes over the ship during a period of 90
  minutes, prompting a sharp reaction from the US who slammed the
  move as “provocative.”


  The Russian Foreign Ministry has previously accused NATO of
  violating the Montreux Convention, claiming the USS Taylor spent
  11 more days than the limit in the region in February and March.



  The expected deployment of the missile cruiser comes as NATO
  forces are beefing up their presence in Eastern Europe because of
  the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. Western leaders have accused
  Russia of purposely destabilizing its neighbor, something that
  the Russian government has categorically denied.



  Last week, the Ukraine’s coup-appointed government deployed
  15,000 troops on its border with Russia, provoking a sharp rebuke
  from Moscow which said Ukraine and NATO were not contributing to
  de-escalating the crisis in the region. Russia’s Deputy Defense
  Minister Anatoly Antonov said that Russian troops had been pulled
  back from the border zone.
  
  However, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen insisted on
  Thursday that there had been no movement of Russian troops.


“I have very good vision but while we've noted Russia’s
  statement so far we haven't seen any - any - indication of troops
  pulling back,” Rasmussen said on his Twitter. “If we saw
  visible signs of a meaningful pullback by Russia troops, I'd be
  the first one to welcome it,” he added.



  Elsewhere, in Eastern Europe, NATO has significantly increased
  its military presence and embarked on military drills. Earlier
  this month, the alliance began a 6,000-strong troop exercise
  called ‘Spring Storm’ in Estonia – the biggest since 2003 when
  the drill was first held.



  Russia has condemned NATO’s activities and branded them as a
  provocation and not contributing to the normalization of the
  situation in Ukraine."
