"US charges 5 Chinese officials in cyberspying case

A grand jury in the United States has indicted five members of the Chinese military with hacking into American computer networks and engaging in cyber espionage on behalf of a foreign government.


  A grand jury in the United States has indicted five members of
  the Chinese military with hacking into American computer networks
  and engaging in cyber espionage on behalf of a foreign
  government.



  The individuals — all allegedly officers of an elite cyber squad
  within the People’s Liberation Army, US federal prosecutors said
  Monday — are accused of hacking six American entities and
  stealing valuable trade secrets and other sensitive business
  information on behalf of China.



  Among those that were targeted, the Department of Justice says,
  are nuclear technology developer Westinghouse and a large
  integrated specialties metal company headquarter in Pittsburgh,
  Pennsylvania, as well as the computer system of a major
  steelworkers union.



  According to US officials, the hackers are all members of the
  PLA’s prestigious but highly secretive Unit 61398, which a well touted investigation
  conducted in by cybersecurity firm Mandiant in 2013 revealed to
  be responsible for targeting no fewer than 141 companies across
  20 major industries, including Lockheed Martin, the Chertoff
  Group and Coca-Cola, all from a 12-story office building in
  Shanghai.


“We allege that members of Unit 61398 conspired to hack into
  computers of six US victims to steal information that would
  provide an economic advantage to the victim’s competitors,
  including Chinese, state-owned enterprises,” said John P
  Carlin, the assistant attorney general for the Federal Bureau of
  Investigation’s national security division, at Monday’s
  announcement.


“For the first time,” Carlin continued, “we are
  exposing the faces and names behind the keyboards in Shanghai
  used to steal from American businesses.”


    A new era of global cyber battles: FBI issues Wanted poster for
    alleged Chinese army officers hacking US firms. pic.twitter.com/ycXh4ZEZ0W
    — Devlin Barrett (@DevlinBarrett) 
    May 19, 2014


  PLA officers maintained unauthorized access to victim’s
  computers, US Attorney General Eric Holder said at Monday’s
  announcement, “useful to competitors in China, including
  state-owned enterprises.” Once those systems were breached,
  the hackers are alleged to have taken trade secrets and sensitive
  internal communications, which federal prosecutors say were used
  to give China a competitive edge over American business
  opponents.



  In a summary of the alleged conduct released by the DOJ
  on Monday, the hackers are accused of using an array of
  techniques to target the victims, including sending malicious
  code and attempting to phish sensitive details from employees,
  sometimes in the midst of negotiations between industry partners
  in the US and China.



  Speaking to reporters during the event, Holder said “the
  alleged hacking appears to have been conducted for no other
  reason” than to benefit state-owned businesses competitors
  in China.


“The range of trade secrets and other sensitive business
  information stolen in this case is significant and demands an
  aggressive response,” Holder added in a DOJ statement.
  “Success in the global market place should be based solely on
  a company’s ability to innovate and compete, not on a sponsor
  government’s ability to spy and steal business secrets. This
  administration will not tolerate actions by any nation that seeks
  to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the
  integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free
  market.”


  In response to this allegations Chinese foreign ministry
  announced that it is suspending activities of Sino-US internet
  working group, according to Reuters.



  A grand jury in the Western District of Pennsylvania charges
  thatWang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu
  Chunhui participated in the hacks as officers of Unit 61398
  within the Third Department of the PLA. Between 2006 and 2014,
  the indictment alleges, they targeted the networks of
  Westinghouse Electric Co., US subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG,
  United States Steel Corp. , Allegheny Technologies Inc. (ATI),
  the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing,
  Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union
  (USW) and Alcoa Inc.



  In all, the PLA agents are charged with 31 counts apiece,
  including multiple counts under the US Computer Fraud and Abuse
  Act and allegations of aggravated identity theft, trade secret
  theft and economic espionage.



  Earlier this year, secret documents revealed by former National
  Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden suggested that the NSA
  has targeted not only the government of China, but also telecom
  giants, banks and top fedral officials. Specifically the US
  intelligence agency targeted the world's second-largest network
  equipment supplier, Huawei Technologies.



  At Monday’s event, however, Holder quoted US President Barack
  Obama as having said: “We do not collect intelligence to
  provide a competitive advantage to US companies or to the US
  commercial sector.”


  But businesses and government officials alike from around the
  globe have critiqued those assurances from the Obama
  administration, though, particularly in the wake of Snowden leaks
  that indeed suggested that the US has engaged in economic
  espionage against several foreign entities, including ones in
  France, Mexico, Brazil and China.



  Speaking to Democracy Now! earlier this month, national security
  writer Glenn Greenwald said economic espionage is a critical point
  among allegations concerning the NSA, “not so much because
  the US government has vehemently denied that they engage in
  economic spying — though they have — and not so much because
  they’ve accused other countries, particularly the Chinese, of
  engaging in economic spying while they do it — although that,
  too, is true — but it shows how deceitful the US government is
  with its own public.”


  Despite vehemently denying allegations of economic spying,
  Greenwald said, the NSA has nevertheless been linked to acts of
  espionage targeting the largest Brazilian oil company, Petrobras,
  as well as the World Bank and theIMFand the SWIFT banking system,
  among others.


If it is true, the irony is that exactly what they are doing
  to us is what they have always charged that the Chinese are doing
  through us, William B. Plummer, the Huawei's vice president
  of external affairs, told the Associated Press last month.



  Prior to the release last year the 2013 Mandiant’s report, the
  Chinese Defense Ministry issued a statement saying “it is
  unprofessional and groundless to accuse the Chinese military of
  launching cyber attacks without any conclusive evidence.”

“Groundless criticism is irresponsible and unprofessional,
  and it will not help to solve the problem, Hong Lei, a
  spokesman for the Ministry, said of the analyst when it was
  published, “Hacking attacks are transnational and anonymous.
  Determining their origins are extremely difficult. We don't know
  how the evidence in this so-called report can be tenable.”"
