"Donetsk People's Republic asks Moscow to consider its accession into Russia

Donetsk People's Republic has proclaimed itself a sovereign state and has asked Moscow to consider its accession into Russia, the Republic’s council said.

“We, the people of Donetsk, based on results of the May 11
  referendum and the declaration of sovereignty of the Donetsk
  People’s Republic, declare that from now on DPR is now a
  sovereign state,” Republic Co-Chairman Denis Pushilin said.
  “Given the will of the people of the Donetsk People's
  Republic, and in order to restore historical justice, we ask
  Russia to consider the issue of our republic’s accession into the
  Russian Federation,” he added.



  Earlier on Monday the results of referendums have been announced
  in Donetsk and Lugansk Regions, showing the majority of voters
  support self-rule, amid an intensified military operation by Kiev
  which resulted in several deaths.



  Almost 90 percent of voters in Donetsk Region have endorsed
  political independence from Kiev, the head of the Central
  Election Commission of the self-proclaimed ‘Donetsk People’s
  Republic’, Roman Lyagin, announced.



  “Counting the ballots proved to be surprisingly easy – the
  number of people who said ‘no’ was relatively small and there
  appeared to be only a tiny proportion of spoiled ballots, so we
  managed to carry out counting quite fast. The figures are as
  follows: 89.07 percent voted ‘for’, 10.19 percent voted ‘against’
  and 0.74 percent of ballots were rendered ineligible,”
  Lyagin told journalists.



  In Lugansk Region 96.2 percent of voters supported the region’s
  self-rule, according to the final figures announced by the local
  election commission.



  The Kremlin’s press service has issued a statement, saying:
  “Moscow respects the will of the people in Donetsk and
  Lugansk and hopes that the practical realization of the outcome
  of the referendums will be carried out in a civilized
  manner.”


  It stressed the necessity of a “dialogue between
  representatives of Kiev, Donetsk and Lugansk.”


  At the same time, both the EU and US dismissed the ballots in
  eastern Ukraine as illegal.



  In the two weeks prior to the referendum, Kiev intensified the
  military operation in southeastern Ukraine. May 9 became one of
  the bloodiest days in the weeks of the operation.
  It has been confirmed that nine people were killed and another 49
  injured during the armed assault of Kiev’s army on Mariupol’s
  Police HQ. Driven by reports of shooting, residents, then mostly
  celebrating WWII Victory Day, flocked to the scene. The Kiev
  fighters opened fire on civilians."
