"‘Go back to Kiev, fascists!’: Outraged locals chase off Ukrainian troops (VIDEO)

Residents of the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk have lashed out at troops entering the city’s streets with outrage and insults. The soldiers were supposed to be liberating the people from pro-Russian terrorists,” according to the Kiev government.


  The ongoing military crackdown on anti-government activists in
  eastern Ukraine has been portrayed as a noble quest of freeing
  the locals “kept hostage” by the so-called
  “terrorists” and “separatists.” Coup-imposed
  Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov recently branded the
  campaign “an anti-terrorist operation against the sabotage
  group of the Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) of the Russian
  Federation” on his Facebook page.
  
  Curiously, however, eastern Ukrainians “liberated” by
  the Kiev troops have not at all been grateful for the armored
  vehicles roaming through their cities and military men with and
  without insignia shooting at supporters of the self-proclaimed
  Donetsk Republic. Dozens of armed self-defense activists and
  unarmed civilians supporting them have reportedly been injured or
  killed since the start of the military operation in the Donetsk
  Region, where many people have openly rallied in favor of a
  referendum on autonomy from Kiev.



  In the city of Kramatorsk, which for weeks has been an active
  stronghold of anti-government sentiments, locals took to the
  streets after Ukrainian troops arrived on APCs and forced
  self-defense troops to a small cluster in the central square.



  Defiant of the armed vehicles and sniper rifles pointed at them, residents were filmed
  approaching the troops to have their say.
  “Fascists! Fascists!” the locals chanted, casting
  insults on the troops and the Kiev government. Kiev authorities
  are commonly referred to as the “fascist junta” in the
  east of the country, because of their takeover of power in
  February and the government's alliance with nationalists –
  including the notorious Right Sector radical group.
  “What kind of law and order are you bringing here?! We are
  the f*****g residents of the Donetsk Region, not you!” one
  man shouted. Many of the soldiers interviewed by RT stringer
  Graham Phillips revealed they had come from western Ukrainian
  regions, including Lvov and Ivano-Frankovsk. Kiev has been
  apparently relying on regional and ethnic differences in Ukraine
  while launching the military action, as a large part of eastern
  Ukrainian armed forces and police have been unwilling
  “to fire at our own people.”
  The crowd in Kramatorsk grew even angrier as one of the Ukrainian
  APCs rammed a road sign, bringing it down.
  “Get back to Kiev! You are not welcome here! Get out! It is
  our land!” residents shouted.
  
  The troops could then be seen suddenly mounting the APCs and
  leaving the area. The crowd rushed to chase them, shouting
  “Donbass! Donbass! Glory to Donbass!”.



  The historical Russian region, which spans through several modern
  eastern Ukrainian regions and is commonly associated with its
  mining industry and metallurgy, Donbass became part of the
  Ukrainian SSR at the beginning of the Soviet era, but has
  nevertheless retained a strong local identity.
  
  According to a common stereotype, most residents of the
  strongly-industrial region believe they are the real breadwinners
  of Ukraine, “feeding” the western part of the country. The notion
  is ridiculed by western Ukrainians, some of whom call residents
  of Donetsk Region “ignorant” and “brainwashed”
  people.



  Now many of the locals are rejecting the rule of the coup-imposed
  Kiev government, which is dominated by parties relying on popular
  support in western and, to a lesser extent, central Ukraine. The
  fact that much of the eastern population is Russian-speaking and
  has cultural and family ties with Russia has been used for
  delegitimizing the popular protests as “pro-Russian
  insurgency” in Ukrainian and Western media. However, despite
  accusations of “separatism,” most people protesting in
  eastern Ukraine have been preaching for the federalization of the
  country and for an autonomous rule – not for joining Russia.



  At least six people have been killed and 15 injured since the
  start of the Kiev military operation in Kramatorsk on Friday,
  according to Donetsk Regional Administration. The local
  self-defense unit contradicts the official count, saying that 10
  people were killed in fighting overnight and at least two others
  were shot by government snipers during street battles on
  Saturday."
