"‘Europe’s bargaining position weakens amid Russia-China gas deal talks'

While Europe searches for alternative energy resources and partners to decrease its dependence on Russia, its bargaining position is weakening with China and Russia about to sign a historic gas deal, professor of political economy Jeffrey Sommers told RT.

RT:China and Russia are expected to sign
  ahistorical gas deal. How much could
  it change the energy market dynamics in the region?

Jeffrey Sommers: I don’t think consequences will
  be all that extreme for Europe. If we take a kind of long view on
  this, the Germans, the French and the Russians have been looking
  to have better relations with each other and increase
  partnerships since the 1970s and they more or less have done
  that. The US is trying to interfere with that as much as it can
  but not always with success. Given the situation in Ukraine, we
  already have business leaders both in Germany and France saying
  that ultimately we can expect many more difficulties in terms of
  long range relations with Russia. As far as the gas deal goes
  between China and Russia, the only thing that it might do with
  regards to Europe is to leave Europe with a little bit less
  bargaining power over prices for gas, so Russia's position is a
  little bit stronger vis-?-vis Europe when it comes to bargaining
  future contract prices for gas. That said, the Russian position
  is going to be just a little bit weaker in the negotiations with
  China over prices because they know that Russia wants to collude
  a deal as quickly as possible, so that they do not have to be so
  dependent on the European market of gas.


RT:Is it fair to say that with China
  becoming a major importer of Russian gas, Europe could lose some
  of its leverage when dealing with Moscow on gas issues?

Former British
    diplomat William Mallinson on the Chinese-Russian gas
    deal:“These negotiations have been going
    on well over ten years. If [the contract] is signed, it will
    obviously make Gazprom less reliant on profits of European
    markets. This will put it [Russia] in a stronger position
    because Europe will still need cheaper Russian gas than for
    example, American LNG, liquefied, which is extremely expensive
    and the Americans would love to sell it to Europe. So it
    actually makes Russia even more independent than it already is
    and less reliant on the European markets.”

JS: Absolutely. I do not think it is going to be
  huge, but certainly they will lose some leverage. The anticipated
  amounts of exports to China are going to be something in the
  order of about half of what Europe imports currently, so that is
  a substantial amount of gas. So it is certainly going to weaken
  the position of Europe in terms of bargaining, no doubt.


RT:So Europe threatens to slap trade
  sanctions, Russia goes to China. Is there any connection here do
  you think?

JS: Yes and no, this deal between China and
  Russia has been one that has been talked about for a full decade,
  so there is no surprise that there has been an ongoing
  negotiation. I think the timing in terms of finally concluding
  the deal is definitely related to the issue of proposed trade
  sanctions against Russia by some European states. Now, this is
  actually disadvantageous for Russia, just a small amount,
  marginally, in terms of its negotiations with China, not much,
  but it is a disadvantage; Europe is going forward in terms of
  their negotiations over gas prices.


RT:How much does Europe need Russian energy
  resources?

JS: They have been decreasing their imports of
  Russian gas, they are going to be moving towards renewable
  resources of energy. They have also begun importing natural gas
  from Algeria, they are also looking to identify new sources of
  natural gas in the North Sea. And of course they are also talking
  about fracking on the continent. The importance of Russia for
  European gas imports is actually declining somewhat but it is
  still very important. Then the US is talking about liquefying its
  natural gas and then exporting it to Europe, but all that said,
  Europe still depends on Russian gas; they cannot just cut
  themselves off in a short term. The demands for gas are just too
  great for that.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
