"Germany not satisfied with US assurances over NSA spying

The chancellor of Germany spoke alongside United States President Barack Obama on Friday about the National Security Agency's surveillance practices for the first time in the US since she voiced concerns last year about leaked NSA operations.


  A joint news conference Friday afternoon at the White House Rose
  Garden in downtown Washington, DC between the two primarily
  concerned the escalating situation in Ukraine, but both Pres.
  Obama and Chancellor Angela Merkel also discussed the NSA in the
  wake of disclosures that last year propelled the secretive
  American spy agency into the international spotlight.



  Although Merkel has adamantly spoken out against the NSA's
  surveillance practices in the months since those disclosures
  first surfaced last June, Friday's meeting at the president's
  home marked her first visit to the White House since.



  After both Obama and Merkel made prepared remarks at the Rose
  Garden about the Ukrainian crisis, the American president took a
  moment to put aside queries from the press and instead bring it
  upon himself to address the tensions between America and Germany
  that have worsened as a result of the NSA leaks.



  In the months since former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden
  disclosed those previously secret documents to the media, the
  NSA's practices have attracted criticism from all corners of the
  globe. On her part, however, Merkel made considerable waves after
  raising questions about the NSA's alleged spying on foreign
  leaders, including herself. Before long, the US intelligence
  community was linked to conducting surveillance on numerous
  officials atop the governments of allied nations, and other
  countries quickly condemned America's behavior as well.


“Germany is one of our closest allies and our closest
  friends, and that is true across the spectrum of issue —
  security, intelligence, economic, diplomatic — and Angela Merkel
  is one of my closest friends on the world stage and somebody
  whose partnership I deeply value,” Obama said. “And so
  it has pained me to see that degree to which the Snowden
  disclosures have created strains in the relationship,” the
  president added.



  Last October, a spokesperson for Merkel said she told the
  president that being targeted by US surveillance was
  “completely unacceptable” and represented a “grave
  breach of trust.”

“Under the present conditions,” Merkel said Friday,
  Germany and the US have “differences of opinions to
  overcome.”


  To do as much, Merkel said, both parties should enter in a “cyber
  dialogue” or sorts in order to have a forum for a longer
  discussion on the matter. Snowden's revelations have provoked the
  US to already consider some reforms both internationally and
  domestically, but Merkel said allied partners of the US should
  have a say as well.



  “I've also been convinced for a very long time that it is
  important for our legal structures and our policy structures to
  catch up with rapidly advancing technologies,” Obama said
  later, “and as a consequences, through a series of steps,
  what we tried to do is reform what we do and have taken these
  issues very seriously.”


  The president further celebrated his administration's attempts
  during the last few months to reign in the NSA to a degree,
  assuring Chancellor Merkel in particular that he's been pursuing
  changes she'd likely approve of.


“Domestically, we tried to provide additional assurances to
  the American people that their privacy is protected. But what
  I've also done is taken the unprecedented step of ordering our
  intelligence community to take the privacy interests of non US
  persons into account in everything that they do — something that
  has not been done before and something that most other countries
  in the world do not do.”


  Merkel, however, did not immediately accept the president's
  assurances as other allies have in the past after being with
  apologies from the Obama administration. While the German
  chancellor acknowledged on Friday that she still has her concerns
  surrounding the NSA, for instance, French President Fran?ois
  Hollande said after his meeting with Obama in February that
  “Mutual trust has been restored.”


  Meanwhile, Pres. Obama also said during the presser that the
  NSA's actual abilities have been inflated.


“I know that the perception among the public sometimes is
  that the US has capacities similar to what you see in movies and
  on television,” he added. “The truth of the matter is
  that our focus is principally and primarily on how do we make
  sure that terrorists, those who want to proliferate weapons,
  transnational criminals, are not able to engage in the activities
  that they engage in.”


  Obama went on to say that while the US won't succeed in reaching
  these goals on its own, his administration is committed to a
  US-German cyber dialogue as proposed by the chancellor in order
  “to close further the gaps that may exist in terms of how we
  operate, how German intelligence operates, to make sure there is
  transparency and clarity and what we are doing and what our goals
  and intentions are.”

“These are complicated issues and we are not perfectly
  aligned yet, but we share the same values and we share the same
  concerns, and this is something that is deeply important to
  me,” he said."
