"Drug cocktail in US executions deemed ‘too cruel for animals’

Some chemicals used to execute death row inmates cause such acute pain that veterinarians in some parts of the US are banned from using them to euthanize animals, a scathing new report by a bipartisan panel of criminal justice experts said.


  The 200-plus page report, “Irreversible Error,” by the Constitutional
  Project, says states should use only one drug, be it a
  government-approved anesthetic or barbiturate, to carry out
  lethal injections due to human rights concerns.



  “The one-drug method is also preferred over the three drug method
  by veterinarians for euthanizing animals because the one-drug
  method is more humane and less prone to error,” the report reads,
  citing the following example:


“Due to the risk that pancuronium bromide could cause an
  animal to suffocate to death while paralyzed but fully awake, the
  use of the drug on animals for purposes of euthanasia is
  prohibited in Tennessee by the Nonlivestock Humane Death
  Act.


  Sarah Turberville, a senior counsel at the Constitution Project,
  told the Guardian that it was not just one state which held this
  view.


“It is quite true we have executed humans in the United
  States with drugs that have been prohibited in the euthanizing of
  animals, not just in Tennessee but in a number of states,”
  she said.



  Somewhat ironically, Tennessee is also among those states to pass
  laws keeping their lethal injection recipes a secret in order not
  to interrupt business with their suppliers. The report
  acknowledges that pharmaceutical companies often refuse to sell
  drugs for execution purposes.



  Killer cocktail



  While many medical experts agree with the idea of the one-drug
  lethal injection, persistent shortages of traditional
  barbiturates have led states to experiment with different
  combinations of lethal drugs, sometimes with grotesque
  consequences.



  The latest example is the now infamous execution of Clayton
  Lockett in Oklahoma last week.



  Lockett’s attempted execution, which took one hour and 44 minutes
  from the moment he was first restrained on the gurney, prompted
  outrage across the world.



  The 28-year-old was declared unconscious 10 minutes after
  receiving the first of the state’s new three-drug lethal
  injection combination was administered. However, minutes later he
  began writhing, clenching his teeth and groaning on the gurney.
  It would take a full 43 minutes before he finally expired, at
  which point the blinds had been lowered on the viewing gallery to
  block out the gruesome site in the death chamber.



  US President Barack Obama would later call the botched execution
  “deeply disturbing.”

“Without substantial revisions — not only to lethal
  injection, but across the board — the administration of capital
  punishment in America is unjust, disproportionate and very likely
  unconstitutional,” Mark Earley, a member of the Constitution
  Project’s death penalty committee, said in a statement.



  Lockett’s ordeal is still reverberating throughout the states,
  with one death row inmate in Texas capitalizing on it in a last
  ditch effort to secure a stay of execution.



  Lawyers for Robert James Campbell, who is scheduled to be
  executed May 13, filed a request Tuesday for a delay, based on
  what they called the “unimaginably torturous conduct” in the
  Oklahoma execution last week of Lockett, the New York Times
  reports.



  While Texas only uses one drug, it is among those states which
  keeps it a secret, creating what Campbell’s lawyers called “a
  substantial risk” that his “execution could be as
  horrific as Mr. Lockett’s.”


  Many of the drug shortages stem from an EU embargo intended to
  block the importation of lethal injection technology into the
  United States due to its strict opposition to capital punishment.
  Prior to the 2011 embargo, almost every US state used the same
  three-drug method. The first drug, sodium thiopental, induces
  unconsciousness; the second drug, pancuronium bromide, causes
  muscle paralysis and respiratory arrest; and the third drug,
  potassium chloride, stops the heart. While potassium chloride and
  pancuronium bromide are readily available in the US, sodium
  thiopental is currently only produced by a few drug manufacturers
  worldwide.



  In 2007, the US Supreme Court found that execution by a
  three-drug cocktail of sodium thiopental, pancuronium bromide,
  and potassium chloride does not violate the US Constitution.



  Oklahoma, however, uses an entirely different combination in its
  lethal mixture: midazolam to cause unconsciousness, vecuronium
  bromide to stop respiration and potassium chloride to stop the
  heart. The state often procures the drugs from lightly-regulated
  compounding pharmacies, which combine chemicals for medical use.



  Where do we go from here?



  In total, the study offers 39 recommendations to courts and
  policymakers in the 32 states where the death penalty has not
  been abolished. Chief among them include stricter protocols
  regarding the collection, testing, retention and access to
  forensic data.



  More specifically, the study recommends that the US Congress
  institute federal standards for accrediting forensic
  laboratories, and only examiners from the labs should be allowed
  to testify in capital cases. It also calls on forensic labs to
  operate independently of law enforcement agencies so as to avoid
  potential bias.



  According to the Innocence Project, unvalidated forensic science,
  such as hair and fiber comparison and bite-mark analysis, has
  played a role in over 50 percent of convictions which were later
  overturned with the aid of DNA evidence.



  A peer-reviewed study by published by the Proceedings of the
  National Academy of Sciences of the United States last month
  conservatively estimated that no less than 4 percent of the
  approximately 3,000 US prisoners waiting to be put to death are
  in fact innocent of the crimes they were convicted of.



  The document also stresses the need to stamp out racial bias in
  capital punishment cases. It further recommends that the death
  penalty not be applied to people with mental disorders so severe
  that they are unable to significantly appreciate “the nature,
  consequences or wrongfulness of their conduct.”



  It further calls on implementation of the Eighth Amendment’s
  prohibition against execution of individuals who have
  intellectual disability should be improved.


“There should be a rebuttable presumption that a person with
  an intelligence quotient (IQ) below 75 is intellectually disabled
  and therefore ineligible for the death penalty. The prosecution
  should be permitted to rebut the presumption by clear and
  convincing evidence. An IQ above 70 can be considered in
  determining whether the defendant has demonstrated intellectual
  disability by a preponderance of the evidence,” it said.



  While the US Supreme Court ruled in 2002 that it is
  unconstitutional to execute a person with “mental retardation,”
  states were given broad leeway in determining what constitutes an
  intellectual disability.



  More than a decade after its initial ruling, the Court is
  examining the constitutionality of how some states determine
  whether or not a defendant is intellectually disabled."
