"Fighting income inequality: Obama-Biden vacation tab reaches $40 mn

A vacation tab racked up by President Obama and Vice President Biden has gotten pretty hefty – reaching $40 million, according to a taxpayer watchdog group.


  In a statement released by Judicial Watch, the group stated it
  had gotten its hands on documentation from the US Air Force, via
  Freedom of Information Act requests, that reveals the cost of
  flying Obama and Biden alone routinely exceeds hundreds of
  thousands of dollars per hour in the air.



  According to the Washington Examiner, which obtained the release,
  the president’s two golf outings this year cost roughly $2.9
  million in taxpayer funds.



  Judicial Watch estimates that since 2009, American taxpayers have
  spent about $40 million flying Obama and Biden to various
  destinations – not just golf outings in Palm Springs, California,
  but also for vacations to Hawaii and trips to Africa.



  Additionally, the group stated that even more money is spent on
  accommodation, vehicle transportation, Secret Service protection,
  and other things. The president of Judicial Watch says the amount
  of spending amounts to abuse.

“It is clear that the Obamas continually abuse the perks of
  the president’s office at taxpayer expense,” said Tom
  Fitton, according to the Examiner. “And it is particularly
  interesting that Obama has chosen to take not one but two luxury
  vacations back-to-back while inveighing against ‘income
  equality.’ President Obama’s waste of the hard-earned tax dollars
  of working Americans on unnecessary luxury travel is an abuse of
  office.”


  This isn’t the first time the cost of the president’s travel has
  been subject to scrutiny by Judicial Watch. In March, the group
  announced that Obama’s trips to Hawaii and Africa in 2013 cost
  nearly $16 million in flight costs alone. In particular, the trip
  to Africa was criticized by some after reports indicated that,
  based on previous presidential journeys to the continent, it
  could cost between $60 million and $100 million.



  With the trip taking place as sequestration forced cuts in
  various government agencies, Obama's political opponents have
  criticized him for taking the trip while canceling White House
  tours.


“For the cost of this trip to Africa, you could have 1,350
  weeks of White House tours,” Rep. George Holding (R-N.C.)
  said at the time. “It is no secret that we need to rein in
  government spending, and the Obama administration has regularly
  and repeatedly shown a lack of judgment for when and where to
  make cuts.”


  But those with experience in planning presidential trips have
  chalked up the costs as par for the course.


“Even in the most developed places of Western Europe, the
  level of support you need for mass movements by the president is
  really extraordinary,” said Steve Atkiss, who helped
  coordinate travel under President George W. Bush, to the
  Washington Post. “As you go farther afield, to less-developed
  places, certainly it’s more of a logistical challenge.”"
