"The present Kiev regime is the result of the crisis which initially emerged due to the unskillful and unprofessional political line of the European Union and the United States, Chizhov told Russian reporters. The EU spoke so much and so often about its Eastern Partnership policy's not being aimed against Russia that this alone put it to doubt. Today, it is pretty certain that Eastern Partnership is a rather artificial geopolitical project aimed at attracting target countries to the European Union, but without giving them the slightest hope for membership, the ambassador noted.

He reminded that whereas the level of support for this policy was high in such countries as Georgia after the events of 2008, it raised much more questions (including from government officials)  in other states, for example in Armenia.

Azerbaijan said at the very beginning that it was not interested, and the EU has kept Belarus a certain distance as it is. As for Moldova, its pro-European coalition is making all efforts towards implementing this program, but this raises a legitimate issue of Transdniestria, and now - also of Gagauzia, Chizhov went on.

The envoy said the EU should thoroughly analyze the real situation and all its aspects in the countries with which they work. If they do not have enough expertise, let them ask knowledgeable persons. We'll help them. I send them such a signal regularly, he noted.


The sooner the EU turns over the page of its worries for the fate of its Ukrainian project which has nothing to do with the Ukrainian people, the better it will be for the European Union, he underlined.

If all the energy our European partners spend on developing various scenarios of sanctions and their publicity were used for good deeds, namely the settlement of the Ukrainian crisis in line with the obligations undertaken by the EU as a signatory of the Geneva communique, it would be more correct and sensible, Chizhov said.

Commenting on the initiative to convene the Geneva-2 conference, Chizhov noted that it would only make sense if representatives of Ukrainian regions participated in it.

The German foreign minister suggests preliminary round table discussions involving all political forces of Ukraine. We support it. Everything bumps into Kiev's position, the Russian envoy said. The attempts to present Russia as representative of Ukraine's southeast is utter nonsense. The refusal by Donetsk and Luhansk to postpone the date of the referendum only confirms the untenability of this approach.


In the old group (Russia, the European Union, the USA and Ukraine), we can only say that Kiev failed to meet its commitments within the framework of the first Geneva meeting, but we're saying it anyway. In the long run, it is not Russia that should comply with the Geneva communique's provision on turning in weapons including by Right Sector militants and freeing administrative buildings in Kiev and the need to stop violence, Chizhov said.

As for western journalists' favorite question about how much closer Ukraine has come to EU membership, Chizhov expressed confidence that this process had been negative. Ukraine is only coming further away from this prospect, he said."
