"US pushes to complete ‘project for military domination of entire planet’

United States is doing everything to dominate the world militarily by expanding NATO into Eastern Europe and building up the Pacific Command contingents to keep China in place, political analyst and writer Rick Rozoff told RT.

RT:What do they mean by 'positioning' here
  exactly, after the alliance’s top military commander said NATO
  may station permanently additional troops in Eastern Europe?

Rick Rozoff: To complete its project for
  military domination of the entire planet. You know, the short and
  accurate answer to that question.



  The US has in the post-Cold War period been developing
  particularly bilateral – but also many times collective –
  military partnerships with arguably every country in the world,
  with the possible exception of maybe a dozen or so. That is the
  US’ graduating officers from military academies in the US; the
  military presence and advisers; conducting military exercises in
  all parts of the world.



  And this is something, of course, unprecedented in history where
  one… I’ll use the term employed by the commander-in-chief of the
  US Armed Forces technically, the president of the US, Barack
  Obama, who – this isn’t the greatest irony in history, I don’t
  know what is – on the occasion of receiving the Nobel Peace Prize
  in December 2009 referred to himself a commander-in-chief of a
  nation at war in two countries, but also identified his nation,
  the US, as being “the world’s sole military super-power.” That’s
  a quote.



  And Secretary Of Defense, Pentagon chief, Chuck Hagel, is simply
  following through on that premise that the US is going to sustain
  and expand its military presence internationally and all parts of
  the world. That’s the US intention.


RT:This comes shortly after US defence
  minister Chuck Hagel declared, that despite budget cuts, the
  Pentagon is set to strengthen its military presence world-wide.
  Can the US afford this?

NR: Economically – no. I mean, I live in a
  country where many of us can’t afford even elementary healthcare,
  dental care, optical care; can’t afford to pay our rent. You
  know, having major problems – but three years ago the US spent
  $718 billion on the official Pentagon budget, which works out at
  almost $2,400 for every man, child and woman in the US.



  Can we afford it? No. It the political elite in the US hell-bent
  on enforcing it on our population in terms of financing it and in
  terms, you know, around the world, in terms of deploying US
  military personnel and hardware. Unfortunately, that’s a
  political issue. It’s one that would have to be answered by the
  American people refusing to any longer subsidize such global
  military expansion.


RT:So NATO has already built-up its
  military might in the region. It also said it's ready to take
  action to protect its allies. Just what kind of dangers and
  action could we be talking about?

NR: You know, the US has ways of influencing
  people short of military bombardment, not that it’s hesitant to
  do that as we know. We can simply look at what’s going on in
  Ukraine and Syria right now where the US fighting, essentially,
  proxy wars. All the hot wars of the last 25 I don’t have to
  iterate, I suspect.



  But the US is also capable of bribing, subverting and in other
  ways winning the approval for the US military collaboration in
  countries. More recently say in Myanmar, which has been one of
  the, perhaps, dozen countries that didn’t have a direct military
  partnership with the US directly and is now heading in that
  direction. You may recall that Pentagon chief Hagel spoke about
  increased US military collaboration with the Association of
  South-East Asian Nations, of which Myanmar is member. The other
  are already solidly in the US military camp, including if one can
  believe it, Vietnam; also Cambodia; Laos, the South-East Asian
  Nations member that’s for a while has been holding off, but it
  looks like the state department has been able to soften its
  opposition to the US military partnerships as it did with Vietnam
  and Myanmar earlier.



  So again, you have a small handful of countries that manage to
  stay out of the US military orbit – Russia, China, Iran being the
  major ones.


RT:Can you elaborate more on what falls
  into US military orbit?

NR: Well, the Asian Pacific pivot what you
  referring to that was announced at the White House as well as the
  Pentagon two years ago, was to shift as much as 60 percent of
  total US naval and air-force assets to the Asian Pacific region
  where the Pacific Command of the US military is.



  Again the US is alone in history of having carved up an entire
  globe into military commands, but the Pacific Command is the
  largest of them all. It takes the largest space. It has the
  largest amount of troops and military hardware assigned to it,
  but it is going to grow way larger. One can suspect that the
  reason for that is that US is comfortable in having subjugated an
  entire European continent, minus Russia, under NATO with NATO
  expansion. And similarly to have gained control of the
  Mediterranean base through most of Africa, related and analogous
  military programs. So, that the really one place to move against
  now is China and to do that they are stepping up the military
  presence in the Asian Pacific region.


RT:Can US public opinion influence the
  decision to deploy troops?

NR: Mr. Hagel, really sincerity does not care
  whatsoever what the American populace feels like anything, much
  less military spending and military deployments. We have a
  government that is not accountable to people on any important
  issues.



  We have a corrupt, money driven political system, two party
  monopoly that disallows any sort of meaningful participation by
  citizens in the political process. That is simply incontestable.
  It is getting worse by the day. Political candidates, certainly
  for Federal Office, are vetted by the major merchants of death,
  if you will, by the arms manufacturers. And if they in any way or
  form stand in opposition to the US global military expansion,
  their opponents or so are handsomely funded in campaigns that
  they stand no chance of being elected."
