"OSCE calls on Kiev to free Russian journalists, ‘stop intimidating media’

The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) has urged Kiev authorities to release the Russian journalists captured in eastern Ukraine, saying that intimidation and obstruction of media working in the country is “unacceptable.”


  The OSCE’s representative on freedom of the media, Dunja
  Mijatovic, has addressed the coup-imposed acting Ukrainian
  Interior Minister Arsen Avakov in a letter, urging to release the
  LifeNews journalists detained by Kiev forces on Sunday and
  thoroughly investigate the incident, Itar-Tass reports.



  Mijatovic has condemned the harassment of journalists in Ukraine,
  noting that on May 15-16 a host of Russian journalists from
  Channel One, NTV, TVC and Zvezda channels were denied entrance at
  the country’s border despite “all of them have been
  accredited by the Ukrainian authorities for covering the
  presidential elections.”


  In the letter, the OSCE representative has urged to “stop
  intimidating and threatening members of the media,” stressing
  that journalists must be allowed to do their jobs without fearing
  for their security.



  The political powers in Ukraine “must fully realize that
  obstruction of the freedom of media is unacceptable,” Mijatovic
  said.



  The detained journalists, Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko, are
  being investigated on the charges of “aiding the terrorist
  groups,” deputy secretary of Ukraine’s National Security and
  Defense Council (SNBO), Victoria Sumar, wrote on her Facebook
  page.



  She added that there is “direct video evidence” of her
  claims, pointing at footage released on Monday showing Ukrainian
  troops rudely forcing a group of handcuffed people to get down on
  their knees and looking through belongings that appeared to have
  belonged to them.



  Along with a close-up of the documents of two LifeNews
  journalists, the video showed some journalistic equipment, a pile
  of Ukrainian hrivnyas and Russian rubles, and a MANPAD with
  inscriptions in Polish. The third man shown kneeling on the
  ground was not identified.



  The Ukrainian Security Service said on Monday, without
  elaborating, that two Russian citizens detained in the Donetsk
  Region with video equipment have been brought to Kiev for
  interrogation.



  Meanwhile, a member of Russia’s presidential Human Rights Council
  negotiating with Kiev authorities, Maksim Shevchenko, said that
  the journalists are being accused of allegedly taking part in
  “violent interrogations” of ‘Alfa’ Ukrainian special
  service officers, and asking questions.



  Shevchenko said he believes that the detained journalists did not
  take part in any interrogations, but some other journalists did,
  and in this sense LifeNews reporters were “set up” by
  those other people. The human rights activist said the council
  will ask distinguished Kiev lawyers to defend the LifeNews
  journalists in court.



  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Monday stressed that
  the Russian journalists detained in the Donetsk Region must be
  released immediately.


“We are concerned that during combat actions, which are led
  by [Ukrainian] armed forces with the participation of radicals,
  extremists, militants of the Right Sector and other groups, some
  journalists are suffering. Very often they are detained, faced
  with fictitious demands, which do not fit into generally
  recognized norms. The latter concerns two journalists from the
  LifeNews channel,” Lavrov said.



  According to Lavrov, Moscow has been using all available OSCE
  channels, urging the organization to facilitate the journalists’
  release.



  LifeNews journalists meanwhile started a Twitter campaign under
  the hashtag #SaveOurGuys. In just hours, thousands have shared
  their pictures with the hashtag written on sheets of paper, or
  retweeted them.


#SaveOurGuyspic.twitter.com/PGQVMqNG3h
    — AntiMaydan Ukraine (@AntiMaydanUA) May
    19, 2014


  Representatives from the Russian Union of Journalists started
  OSCE-brokered Vienna negotiations with the counterparts from
  Ukraine on Monday. The Ukrainian side has been asked to help
  prevent cases of detention and harassment of Russian journalists.
  
  The union’s head, Pavel Gusev, told Itar-Tass that it is
  appealing to international organizations, including the OSCE,
  with a statement demanding the reporters’ release.
  “This is a heinous campaign, when the journalists are being
  presented as terrorists and their work is obstructed...All the
  actions of the Ukrainian side contradict with international
  norms,” Gusev said, calling on Kiev to free the Russian
  journalists and apologize to them.
  
  Numerous cases of Kiev-installed authorities banning Russian
  media workers from entering Ukraine have intensified, along with
  cases of their detention and deportation by special services
  and law enforcement for covering the events in eastern Ukraine.
  
  Moreover, several cases of Ukrainian troops firing at people with cameras, even at those
  wearing blue press vests, have been reported. A video journalist
  working for RT’s Ruptly crew in the volatile eastern Ukrainian
  city of Mariupol was shot at and seriously injured during Kiev’s military operation on May 9. A
  medical jet sent for him was allowed to land in Donetsk only
  after three days of negotiations.



  ‘Kiev very keen to stop journalists’



  The situation with the LifeNews crew is “bad news” for
  journalists working in Ukraine and for the international
  community, and it will only get worse as the Ukrainian election –
  set for May 25 – nears, Martin McCauley, an Eastern Europe expert
  from the University of London, told RT.
  “In the week up to next Sunday’s presidential election, the
  situation will be very tense and the Kiev authorities will be
  very keen to stop journalists whom they regard as supporting the
  other side, or supporting separatism, and so on, from doing their
  jobs,” McCauley said.
  
  According to the analyst, the international community should
  “do more” to ensure the rights of journalists are
  observed in Ukraine.
  “It is up to the OSCE and the European Union and others to
  make clear to the authorities in Kiev that journalists should be
  allowed to do their job. If they are accused of terrorism, then
  they should be brought before a court with due judicial process
  being observed...It is up to the Kiev authorities to present the
  evidence and then a have a due process of law,” he said.



  Keeping the journalists in detention and isolation, which the
  Ukrainian authorities are doing instead, “is not correct and
  is not acceptable.”“It has got to a situation where if the Kiev authorities
  believe that all separatists are terrorists, then all journalists
  who communicate with them and engage in interviews with them and
  pass on information to them, they then become terrorists as well.
  So therefore you have got an extraordinary situation in which
  journalists are not able to carry out their duties in eastern
  Ukraine,” McCauley said."
