"Ukrainian military forcing Russian reporter to kneel caught on camera

A photo taken by a Western journalist shows Ukrainian troops menacing a reporter for Russian news outlet LifeNews and forcing him to get on his knees at a checkpoint between the Kharkov and Donetsk regions in eastern Ukraine.


  This latest incident in a series of violations of journalists’
  professional rights in Ukraine occurred as LifeNews’
  correspondent, Sergey Golyandin, attempted to talk to armed
  people about making a report at the checkpoint Friday. The
  journalist was only fulfilling his duties as a correspondent for
  the TV channel and tried to obtain non-classified information,
  LifeNews said on its website.



  The checkpoint was located not far from the Barvenkovo railway
  station, through which Kiev troops were redeployed ahead of the
  military operation against anti-government protesters in the town
  of Slavyansk, Golyandin told RT. He said their crew got to the
  venue in a taxi and – when they saw foreign journalists being
  thoroughly searched – decided not to risk continuing and stopped.



  Golyandin decided first to have a talk with the armed people at
  the site and ask them if he could interview any of them and film.
  The reporter said he held his press card in his right hand, so
  that the military could see it. However, as he was about 30
  meters from the checkpoint, guards on the perimeter of the
  facility “pointed machine guns at me,” he said.



  “I was told in rather a rude way to lie on the ground, face
  down. I bent on my knees. Two guys with machine guns and another
  person with a gun approached me on one side, and two more guys
  with machine guns on the other,” he said in a comment to RT.



  The military behaved in “a pretty aggressive” way, he
  noted. Only after they found that he was a journalist was
  Golyandin allowed to get back on his feet and talk to them for
  some time. Still, they banned the journalist from using his
  camera and filming anything.



  However, in a private conversation the soldiers told the Russian
  journalists that “they do not want a war,” Golyandin
  said. In their opinion Right Sector’s special forces Dnepr-1 and
  Dnepr-2 are behind “all provocations and firing at
  checkpoints,” Golyandin said.



  “Then we were told to get out of the place as soon as
  possible,” the LifeNews reporter added.



  The incident was recorded, however, by a foreign correspondent
  present at the site and the image was later posted in Global Look
  Press and other photo banks.



  In a separate incident this week, two LifeNews journalists were
  detained by the Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) while they were
  filming an interview with an opposition leader and then deported
  to Russia.



  On Monday, Simon Ostrovsky, a journalist for the New York-based
  Vice News, was detained by self-defense forces in Slavyansk,
  eastern Ukraine. He was released three days later, on Thursday.



  Lately, there have been an increasing number of incidents with
  Russian journalists on Ukrainian territory, with reporters being
  detained, questioned for hours, threatened, deported or banned
  from entering the country.



  Heads of Russian TV channels, including RT, have called on international organizations to
  protect the rights and dignity of journalists covering the
  Ukraine crisis from illegal actions of the Kiev authorities. In a
  letter addressed to the UN, UNESCO and the OSCE they urged them
  to “defend the professional rights of journalists working in
  Ukraine.”"
