"CANTON, Massachusetts, April 30, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Dunkin' Donuts, one of the world's leading coffee and baked good chains, is celebrating the Dunkaccino at participating restaurants across Europe with the introduction of the new Frozen Dunkaccino Fudgaccino and Mocha Crunch Donut. With the addition of the Frozen Dunkaccino Fudgaccino, guests can now enjoy the delicious flavor of Dunkin' Donuts' signature Dunkaccino both hot and frozen. The Mocha Crunch Donut also gives guests the chance to enjoy Dunkaccino-inspired flavors in a new bakery offering, available a limited time.

The signature Hot Dunkaccino features the brand's smooth espresso derived from high-quality coffee beans, steamed milk and rich chocolate flavor, topped with a mocha drizzle. The beverage can be enjoyed on its own, or with the added indulgence of sweet whipped cream.

The Frozen Dunkaccino Fudgaccino combines the rich flavors of espresso and hot fudge, blended well with ice and topped with whipped cream and a chocolate drizzle to create the perfect drink for cooling off. The Mocha Crunch Donut is a round yeast shell donut with white frosting and chocolate covered crunchies sprinkled across the top. Guests can now indulge in their favorite Hot or Frozen Dunkaccino creation and pair it with a delectable Mocha Crunch Donut.

We're so excited to be celebrating our delicious Dunkaccino lineup at our restaurants across Europe this spring, said Jeff Miller, Executive Chef and Vice President of Culinary Innovation at Dunkin' Brands. Now, guests can choose from our signature Hot Dunkaccino, Frozen Dunkaccino Fudgaccino and Mocha Crunch Donut as the weather begins to warm up for the spring. We hope our guests enjoy these sweet treats, in addition to our wide range of other delicious menu items, including beverages, sandwiches and baked goods.

The Hot Dunkaccino, Frozen Dunkaccino Fudgaccino and Mocha Crunch Donut are available at participating Dunkin' Donuts restaurants throughout the United Kingdom, Germany, Bulgaria and Russia, as well as participating Dunkin' Coffee locations in Spain. In addition to the new Dunkaccino beverages and donut, guests can enjoy Dunkin' Donuts' wide range of high-quality hot and iced beverages, donuts, muffins and sandwiches, all served fast and in friendly environments.

Dunkin' Donuts currently has more than 120 restaurants across Europe, in countries such as Bulgaria, Germany, Spain, Russia, and the United Kingdom.

 

About Dunkin' Donuts

Founded in 1950, Dunkin' Donuts is America's favorite all-day, everyday stop for coffee and baked goods. Dunkin' Donuts is a market leader in the hot regular/decaf/flavored coffee, iced coffee, donut, bagel and muffin categories. Dunkin' Donuts has earned the No. 1 ranking for customer loyalty in the coffee category by Brand Keys for eight years running. The company has nearly 11,000 restaurants in 33 countries worldwide. Based in Canton, Mass., Dunkin' Donuts is part of the Dunkin' Brands Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: DNKN) family of companies. For more information, visit www.DunkinDonuts.com.

 

Contact:

Justin Drake

Tel.: +1-781-737-3315

justin.drake@dunkinbrands.com"
