"‘Pilot program’ revealed: Washington sends missiles to Syrian rebels

The US is sending missiles to Syrian rebels as part of a “pilot program” to strengthen the opposition, American media reveals. Addressing criticism the US is arming extremist militants, Washington claims its weapons will not “fall into the wrong hands.”


  Washington’s new initiative aims to find out whether it can
  supply opposition forces in Syria with weapons without them
  falling into the hands of Islamist extremists, American officials
  told USA Today on condition of anonymity.


They will try this first and see how it goes before
  expanding it, said a former official. According to reports, rebel
  groups have already received anti-tank missiles, known as TOWs,
  which are specially designed to destroy tanks and pierce
  reinforced bunkers.



  This latest move by the US comes as the head of the Syrian
  National Coalition for Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, Ahmad
  Al-Jarba, visits Washington to lobby for more support. Al-Jarba
  will push for Washington to supply rebel forces with
  anti-aircraft missiles, the New York Times reports.



  In a meeting with Secretary of State John Kerry, Al-Jarba
  emphasized that his coalition was “moderate and
  inclusive.”

“The coalition's goal is to build a pluralistic, civil state
  where the majority can live together with the minority in
  peace,” he said.



  Washington has thrown its support behind the Syrian National
  Coalition, granting the body official foreign mission status in
  the US. The US government suspended the Syrian embassy,
  representing the Assad government, earlier in March. In addition,
  the White House has pledged an extra $27 million to helping the
  cause of the rebels in Syria.



  However, Brian Becker of the anti-war ANSWER coalition, says this
  money will only go to help the spread of terrorism in the
  country.


The opposition in Syria includes notorious terrorist forces
  and they have used terrorism, of course supported by the United
  States through proxy forces in Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey to
  finance it and arm them, but they have been carrying out
  terrorist actions, the anti-war activist mentioned.


The idea that there is a dichotomy between a good opposition
  and a bad opposition is just a myth in the face of rising public
  and media attention in the US about the nature of the terrorist
  organizations that are fighting the Assad government,
  Becker concluded.



  As the US steps up its support for the opposition, the Assad
  government has scheduled presidential elections for June 3.
  Bashar Assad will run for re-election against rival candidates
  Maher Abdul-Hafiz Hajjar, 46, and Hassan bin Abdullah al-Nouri,
  54. Elements of the Syrian opposition and Washington have already
  leveled criticism at the vote, branding it a “farce.”


  One senior US administration official denounced the Syrian
  election as a parody of democracy, AFP reports.
  Assad’s decision to hold the elections rings particularly
  hollow given that the regime is continuing to attack and massacre
  the very electorate that is purporting to represent, the
  official said.



  Washington believes the conflict in Syria can only be solved if
  Assad steps down as president.



  Syria was plunged into civil war in 2011 when peaceful uprisings
  against Assad descended into violence. As a result of the
  conflict, at least 150,000 people have died and millions more
  have been displaced and gone into exile. The international
  community made significant progress last year, when the US and
  Russia agreed that Syria should destroy its chemical weapons
  stockpile following an attack in Damascus on August 21 last year.



  The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons-UN task
  force confirmed last week that 92 percent of the weapons
  stockpile had been removed from the war-torn nation."
