"US hypocritical when democracy goes against it

?The US loves to support democracy until there is a danger of people voting in the wrong way, so it will condemn any referendum that goes against it policies, foreign policy expert Daniel McAdams told RT.

RT:What are your thoughts on these recent
  revelations? Why would the government in Kiev involve foreign
  mercenaries?

Daniel McAdams: Well I think you have a lot of
  Kiev appointed oligarchs in the east who are very very wealthy
  and have an interest in trying to quell this unrest. What is
  interesting about these last two stories we've seen about US
  involvement is that they both come from major German newspapers.
  And it makes you wonder whether the Germans are not getting
  nervous whether the US is pushing this too far.



  We saw for example in Bild a story that dozens of CIA officers
  were involved in helping put down the unrest in the east and now
  we see this other story in the German paper. So under the surface
  I think you see a lot of very concerned German people and German
  businessman from what is happening.


RT:What impact could the presence of these
  private contractors have on the situation in Ukraine?

DM: Well, I think we've seen a change in the
  tactics of the...you would not call them military, because every
  picture that I have seen they look sort of like rag tag militia,
  very violent...but you see a change in their activities.



  They are burning the police stations down. They are shooting… I
  saw at least three unarmed people shot today, on YouTube. It
  seems to be that their purpose is to ferment chaos and to
  destabilize the East. So they are not really about stabilization,
  but destabilization.


RT:Contractors from Blackwater were accused
  of atrocities in Iraq. Why would a company with such a track
  record be invited onto Ukrainian soil?

DM: Well because they are not connected to
  governments. They don’t feel that they need to abide by
  international law. They are able to use extreme violence. We all
  saw what happened in Fallujah. You saw a city decimated by these
  people. So I think that is when you want to have muscle that is
  not accountable, that is who you hire.


RT:Let's now talk more about the Western
  reaction to the developments in Ukraine. We've seen some
  disturbing images of government troops opening fire at unarmed
  civilians during the referendum. Are we going to see any
  condemnation from Western states?

DM: Well as the common practice when the US does
  not like the vote that is coming up, they already condemned it
  beforehand.



  The State Department issued a press release yesterday saying it
  condemned this referendum that was being held by “armed
  separatist groups”. But anyone with internet and a computer can
  see that the armed organizations are not the people on the
  streets.



  As I have said I have seen at least three people being killed
  today. These militias were shutting down polling stations and
  shooting people. I think the US State Department seems to be
  believing its own propaganda for some reason. It is funny that
  they did support an armed insurrection in Kiev where there was no
  election, but you do have a protest in the east, and they are
  trying to hold an election, and the US condemns it.



  The circumstances are not great for the election in the East of
  course, but they will not get any better for the May 25
  presidential race.


RT:The EU and US have said they won't
  recognize the referendum results. Why does the opinion of all
  these people not count?


  DM: The US loves to support democracy until there is a danger of
  people voting in the wrong way. Look what we saw in Egypt, not
  that very long ago. It really is a hypocrisy on the part of the
  US government. I think it is becoming more and more obvious for
  the rest of the world. And it is damaging our reputation."
