"How the corporate media whitewashes Ukraine

Cities in eastern and southern Ukraine have become battlefields as the junta in Kiev has unleashed military and paramilitary thugs on the people of those regions.


  At the same time the media, with its critical role in shaping
  public opinion, has also become one of the principal theaters in
  this ongoing conflict, with Western propaganda being one of the
  most potent weapons.



  Seventy-three years ago this October, the infamous “Odessa
  Massacre” of 1941, which killed more than 30,000 Jews in the
  Ukrainian port city and surrounding areas, was carried out by
  Romanian fascist troops in collaboration with their Nazi patrons
  and allies. The pogrom, merely one of many against Jews and other
  minorities in Ukraine, is a stark historical reminder to the
  people of Odessa (and all those throughout the former Soviet
  Union who fought against fascism during the war) of the
  depravity, inhumanity, and barbarism of Nazis and their
  collaborators.



  And now, 73 years later, Odessa is the scene of yet another
  horrific war crime carried out by fascists against innocent
  civilians. The fire and massacre at the Trade Unions building
  which killed dozens of anti-fascist activists and employees in
  the building, will serve as a painful testimony to the ongoing
  struggle against the junta in Kiev and its neo-Nazi paramilitary
  foot soldiers. This obvious war crime, along with a number of
  others committed by the Right Sector and other ultra-nationalist
  (read fascist) militias, should undoubtedly be the issue making
  headlines around the world.



  And yet, it seems that somehow the slaughter of innocents, and
  the issue of criminal accountability for those who ordered and
  carried out the massacre, has been completely and systematically
  distorted and/or omitted from the Western narrative. Instead, the
  corporate media has deliberately attempted to obscure the true
  nature of the events of that day, and those leading up to and
  subsequent to it, in order to dilute the impact of the
  self-evident, and quite damning, criminality of the fascist
  militias and their leaders and patrons. By using subtle, coded
  language that deliberately minimizes the barbarism of the events
  and shifts blame from Kiev to Moscow, the mainstream Western
  media once again acts as the dutiful servant of the US-EU ruling
  establishment.



  What they are saying (and not saying)



  In examining the way in which the events in Odessa, and those
  that have taken place in other regions since May 1, have been
  portrayed, a few common features emerge. First and foremost is
  the language used to describe the anti-fascist demonstrators who
  made up the majority of the victims in Odessa. In a woefully
  dishonest and biased article published by Reuters entitled
  “Ukraine moving police special forces to control
  Odessa,” the authors utilize critical terminology such as
  “pro-Russian separatists” and “militants,” in
  fact using them interchangeably as a means of “branding”
  the activists as something other than peaceful Ukrainians
  demonstrating for their rights.



  Naturally, the phrase “pro-Russian separatists” is entirely
  misleading on a number of levels. First, the anti-fascist,
  anti-junta activists (as they should rightly be labeled) are not
  separatists in the true sense of the word. They do not seek
  secession outright, but have been demonstrating for weeks in
  favor of a federalized Ukraine where the rights of
  Russian-speakers and other minorities would be respected and
  constitutionally guaranteed. They were demanding that their
  long-standing historical, familial, and economic ties with Russia
  not be severed by force of an illegal government in Kiev and its
  paramilitary shock troops. Far from being “separatists” these
  activists, scores of whom have already been killed, injured,
  and/or taken prisoner, have been standing up for a just and
  peaceful Ukraine instead of the ochlocracy brought about by the
  junta.



  It is equally important to note the use of the word
  “militants” to describe the anti-junta activists. The
  implication of using such a designation has to do with assigning
  guilt to the serious crimes that have been committed.
  Essentially, by referring to the victims of the crimes as
  “militants,” this justifies the actions taken by Right
  Sector and other fascists by portraying them as necessary and
  just in the fight against the “pro-Russian militants.”
  Moreover, designating the activists as militants is an attempt to
  insulate the illegal government in Kiev from the obvious war
  crimes charges that they would face were the propaganda
  mouthpieces in the media actually reporting the story factually.
  And so, by using such terminology, the media is, in effect,
  providing political cover to a criminal regime backed by the
  West. This is certainly par for the course.



  The same Reuters article focuses broadly on the move by the
  junta’s Interior Minister Arsen Avakov to create a new
  “special forces unit” to replace the Odessa police
  which, according to Avakov, committed an “outrageous”
  failure by releasing dozens of survivors who had been taken into
  custody and held as prisoners without receiving proper medical
  care. The article discusses Avakov’s statement about the creation
  of “Kiev-1,” a special unit made up of “’civil
  activists’ who wanted to help the Black Sea city “in these
  difficult days.’”


  Naturally, there is no direct mention of exactly who will be part
  of this new special force, other than a passing reference to the
  fact that “The units Avakov referred to emerged partly from
  the uprising against Yanukovich early this year.” This is
  unmistakably a veiled reference to Right Sector and other fascist
  paramilitary forces which, in contrast to regular police and
  Ukrainian military, can be counted on by Kiev to carry out war
  crimes and other atrocities against anyone they perceive as
  “Moskals” (a derogatory term for Russians and
  Russian-speakers).



  Another critical feature of the article which serves the
  propaganda agenda of the West is the description of the events
  that led the Odessa police to release dozens of the
  survivors-turned-prisoners. The authors of the article describe
  the peaceful demonstration that surrounded the police
  headquarters demanding the release of their friends and family
  utterly dishonestly. The article states, “Kiev's anger on
  Monday focused on the Odessa police decision to release 67
  largely pro-Russian militants after supporters besieged and
  stormed a police station [emphasis added] on Sunday.”


  By describing the peaceful protest as “besieging and
  storming,” the reader is given the impression that the
  “separatists” (also referred to as “terrorists”
  and “rebels” by the criminal regime in Kiev and its
  patrons in the West) are the true initiators of violence and
  conflict. Naturally, though the opposite is true, the seed is
  planted in the public consciousness. Thus the activists are
  branded, like a common consumer product or a public relations
  campaign.



  And so, the Reuters article successfully obscures the nature of
  the new force, its actual role, the crimes committed on the
  ground, and the nature of the opposition. By doing so Reuters,
  like the New York Times and its corporate media brethren,
  successfully spreads misinformation and disinformation in the
  service of the US-EU-NATO imperial system.



  In fact, the aforementioned New York Times, refusing to be
  outdone, published its own highly biased and propagandistic
  article on the events in Odessa and throughout the East and
  South. Entitled “Ukraine’s Reins Weaken as Chaos
  Spreads,” the article presents Kiev, and specifically the
  junta’s Prime Minister Yatsenyuk (handpicked by the West), as
  victims of Russian treachery, portraying him as a victim of
  Russian aggression and provocation. After quoting Yatsenyuk’s
  inflammatory, distortion-filled statement in which he blamed the
  victims in Odessa, referring to the events as “resulting from
  a well-prepared and organized action against people, against
  Ukraine, and against Odessa,” the Times reporter then went
  on parrot Kiev and Washington’s talking points on the subject.



  The articles states that “Mr. Yatsenyuk said the violence
  showed that Russia wanted to rekindle unrest in Odessa, as it had
  in eastern Ukrainian cities.” Immediately following this
  statement, which is the product of hearsay rather than
  substantiated evidence, the article proceeds to discuss Russian
  “imperial ambitions” as evidenced by Crimea and Putin’s
  alleged desire to reestablish Russian dominion over
  “Novorossiya” (New Russia). This is a standard tactic of
  misinformation and propaganda: create an association in the mind
  of the reader such that an abstract relationship
  (Protesters=Russian militants=Putin=Russian imperialism) becomes
  the rubric by which all developments are measured and understood.



  Finally, the Times article also attempts to suppress the reality
  of both Odessa and the eastern region of Donetsk, which has been
  the center of much anti-fascist, anti-junta organizing, including
  the declaration of the People’s Republic of Donetsk. The reporter
  writes, “The violence on Friday and the freeing of prisoners
  on Sunday highlighted a distinction between Odessa and the east:
  In both places, the police have sided with rebels. But here,
  local pro-Kiev activists routinely field street fighters ready to
  confront the Novorossiya group, with lethal consequences on
  Friday.” Essentially, the purpose of this sentence is
  four-fold.



  First, it is to substantiate the claim made by Yatsenyuk that
  police forces are “criminal” because they refuse to take
  part in the suppression and violence directed towards their
  brothers and sisters, cousins and neighbors, completely glossing
  over the fact that this unmistakably indicates that the majority
  of people want nothing to do with the so-called
  “anti-terror” operation being conducted by Kiev’s
  forces.



  Second, the excerpt shows how deceptively the corporate media is
  handling the issue of public opinion. The author completely
  glosses over, with no explanation, the fact that in each city in
  the South and East, the police and many military units have sided
  with the protesters, rather than carry out their criminal orders
  from Kiev. An objective story would highlight this fact in
  demonstrating that the junta in Kiev does not rule with the
  consent of the people and that it, in fact, is a minority ruling
  through violence, intimidation, and Western backing. In burying
  this important aspect of the story, the author and his editors
  have engaged in utterly transparent propagandizing of the issue
  in the service of the West.



  Third, the excerpt illustrates the precariousness of presenting
  Washington’s PR-friendly version of facts. By using the phrase
  “local pro-Kiev activists,” the article completely
  whitewashes the true nature of the forces that committed the
  atrocity. Far from being “activists,” the so called
  “pro-Kiev” forces were actually Nazi paramilitary groups
  including Right Sector which not only likely set the initial
  blaze, but was also documented on video as beating the survivors
  with chains and clubs, denying them emergency medical care, and
  more. But, by describing these criminals as activists, the Times
  does yeoman’s work for Washington and Kiev, establishing a biased
  framework within which readers would perceive the conflict.



  Finally, the way in which the article designates the groups as
  “Kiev activists” versus the “Novorossiya group”
  is a transparent propaganda ploy designed to, once again, create
  a false dichotomy in the minds of ill-informed readers. The
  fascist mobs are merely “activists,” while the anti-Kiev
  protesters are the “Novorossiya group,” meaning they are
  not Ukrainians with their own agency, but are agents of Russian
  imperialism. The author purposely denies the agency of these
  protesters in order to both legitimize the criminal actions of
  the fascists, and de-legitimize the peaceful protests of the
  anti-fascist opposition. Dishonesty might not be a strong enough
  word to describe such underhanded journalistic tactics.



  The grisly events in Odessa, as well as the deadly assaults on
  Slovyansk, Kramatorsk and other eastern cities, undoubtedly mark
  a turning point in the conflict in Ukraine. More than merely an
  important moment, these criminal actions represent a “point
  of no return,” the moment at which any hopes for a peaceful
  and bloodless resolution to the crisis were dashed. Despite the
  droning propaganda emanating from Western corporate media, the
  world cannot and should not excuse these horrific war crimes.
  More to the point, they should serve as a reminder that the
  struggle for Ukraine has a price, one which could have been
  denominated in dollars, euros and rubles. But now, thanks to
  Kiev, Brussels, and Washington, the price will be paid in blood.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
