"White House encourages CEOS to skip Russia business forum

Many US companies are being pressured not to attend the annual St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF) over the divisive issue of Ukraine. This will not significantly alter plans, forum organizers say.

“As we know, many US companies have faced unprecedented and
  direct pressure. They are deciding whether or not to attend the
  forum, but not on their own,” Dmitry Peskov, President
  Putin’s press secretary, told RIA news agency.



  About 15 percent of registered attendees have cancelled as the
  crisis in Ukraine escalates and relations between Russia and the
  West sour, Russia’s Economic Minister Sergey Belyakov said.
  Kommersant reported that almost 40 percent of foreign
  participants have cancelled their plans.



  Peskov said Putin had not altered his agenda for the forum, which
  is intended to woo investors.


The structure of the forum will be the same, there are a few
  changes to speakers, but there are no changes to the roundtable
  events,” the Organizing Committee told RIA Novosti.



  So far, Morgan Stanley’s chief executive has decided to cancel
  his forum visit, according a source at the bank. Citigroup’s CEO
  has withdrawn from the forum, and it is rumored Goldman Sachs
  chief Lloyd Blankfein will also bow out, Bloomberg reported.



  On the forum’s 
  website, 233 attendees from the US are listed as of May 6.



  Representatives from American companies such as, Boeing, PepsiCo,
  IBM, Nike, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan
  Chase, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Citibank, Merrill Lynch,
  MasterCard, and Visa are listed as attending. However, some of
  the top CEOs and presidents have backed out, and will instead
  send other company representatives.



  The structure of the forum will not change because of cancelled
  attendees, and President Putin will deliver the keynote address
  at the forum, set
  to take place May 22-24 in Russia’s northern capital.



  Push from Washington



  The White House has been campaigning for US CEOs and investors
  not to attend this year’s forum.



  Top advisers have said that going to St. Petersburg would send an
  “inappropriate message” after the political events in
  Ukraine.


“Companies will have to make their own decisions, but we
  believe that the most senior business executives traveling to
  Russia to make high-profile appearances with Russian government
  officials at events such as this would send an inappropriate
  message,” Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for Obama’s National
  Security Council, said.



  Top White House advisers like Press Secretary Jay Carney and
  Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew have also been encouraging
  executives and investors to skip the Russian-style DAVOS event.



  Participation among Russian participants hasn’t changed compared
  with last year, Belyakov said.



  The eighteenth St. Petersburg International Economic Forum is a
  key economic conference that attracted more than 4,000 business
  leaders, policy makers, and economic experts from around the
  world at last year’s event.



  Many under the radar business deals are struck, like last year’s
  $270 billion gas deal between Russia’s state-owned Rosneft and China.



  The US has imposed sanctions on dozens of Russian businessmen
  and politicians, as well as the country’s fourteenth largest
  lending institution, Bank Rossiya."
