"NEW YORK, May 6, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Penton'sAviation Week, the largest multimedia information and services provider to the global aviation, aerospace and defense industries, today announced its 2014 MRO Regional Conference for Baltics, Eastern Europe & Russia (MRO BEER). The event will examine the aviation maintenance market in the region, where demand is forecast to grow at 7.3% CAGR over the next decade. The conference will be held June 10-11, 2014 at the Sheraton Warsaw Hotel in Warsaw, Poland.

 

The conference will include presentations and panel discussions covering topics including OEM activity in the aftermarket, preparing for retirement of maintenance-intensive aircraft and growth of surplus parts market, positioning for longevity as inevitable consolidation arrives in the marketplace, tips for maintenance and operational cost reduction, and planning for fleet growth and introduction of new aircraft types.

The event also includes a product and services showcase that will feature 25+ MRO companies presenting innovative solutions. Event partner LOT Aircraft Maintenance Services (LOTAMS) will host a reception and facility tour that is open to all registered attendees.

MRO BEER's keynote address will feature LOTAMS' Pawel Gontarczyk, Board Member, Sales & Product Development Director, and Janusz Krynicki, President of the Management Board. Additional speakers include representatives from Adria Tehnika, Aeroplex of Central Europe, AFI/KLM E&M, Air Maintenance Estonia, AirBridgeCargo, Airbus Flight Hour Services, Aviation Experts, Boeing, Bombardier, Embraer Commercial Aviation, Eurolot, FL Technics, IBA Group, ICF SH&E, LOT Polish Airlines, MTU Maintenance, PDQ Airspares Ltd., PRTL.pl, SuperJet International, TAP Maintenance & Engineering, Turkish Technic, and Volga-Dnepr Technics.

Aviation Week's MRO event series has a proven reputation as the leading force in bringing together airlines, MROs, suppliers, OEMs, regulators and industry experts as they define the global aviation industry. Additional events include MRO Middle East, MRO Latin America, MRO Asia, MRO Europe, and MRO Americas.

Information is available at http://mrobeers.aviationweek.com/beers14 or by calling +1.646.395.3812. On Twitter, follow @aviationweek, @avweekevents, #MROBEER. Discounts are available for qualified airlines, aircraft leasing personnel, and media. For information, visit http://www.aviationweek.com/events.

MRO BEER is produced by Aviation Week in partnership with LOTAMS, with sponsors B/E Aerospace and BAE Systems. The event is supported by the Association of European Airlines, IATA and Airlines for America. Aviation Week & Space Technology is the event's official publication. Media sponsors include Air Transport Observer and Air Transport World.

 

About Aviation Week 

Aviation Week, a division of Penton, is the largest multimedia information and services provider for the global aviation, aerospace and defense industries. Industry professionals rely on Aviation Week for analysis, marketing and intelligence. Customers include the world's leading manufacturers, suppliers, airlines, business aviation operators, militaries, governments and other organizations that serve this global market. The product portfolio includes Aviation Week & Space Technology, AC-U-KWIK, Aircraft Blue Book, Airportdata.com, Air Charter Guide, Air Transport World, AviationWeek.com, Aviation Week Intelligence Network, Business & Commercial Aviation, ShowNews, SpeedNews, Fleet and MRO forecasts, global maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) tradeshows and aerospace & defense conferences.

About Penton 

Penton is a leading professional information services company that engages and informs millions of professionals every day, helping them growand solve their most critical business challenges. As a provider of critical workflow solutions and insightful content, marketing services and networking, Penton helps businesses do business in five core growth markets: agriculture, transportation, natural products/food, infrastructure, and industrial design/manufacturing

Penton is a growth company with a track-record of strong performance and success and is backed by its co-owners: MidOcean Partners and U.S. Equity Partners II, an investment fund sponsored by Wasserstein & Co., LP.

For additional information on the company and its businesses, visit www.penton.com.

 

Media contact:

Meredith Fortunato, Marketing Manager, Aviation Week

Tel.: 347.392.8822

meredith.fortunato@aviationweek.com"
