"MOSCOW/KIEV, May 2 (Xinhua) -- Russia slammed Ukraine for its military assault in the eastern city of Slaviansk Friday, saying it would wipe out all hope for the viability of the Geneva agreements.

During a visit to Minsk, (President Vladimir) Putin called such a possible operation criminal ... Regrettably, the ongoing events have fully confirmed this assessment, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters, as Ukrainian forces tried to retake government buildings occupied by pro-Russia activists.

Noting that Kiev had crossed out the Geneva agreements reached on April 17, Peskov said it is hardly possible to say today that some may expect at least parts of these agreements to be implemented.

The spokesman said Moscow was extremely concerned for the safety of Russia's presidential special envoy Vladimir Lukin and journalists, who were visiting the conflict zone.

He also urged the United States and Europe to assess the situation objectively and call upon those using military aircraft against populated areas to rethink, according to the state RIA Novosti news agency.

Russia's foreign ministry repeated in a statement that using the army against its own people is a crime and will lead Ukraine to a catastrophe.

Ukraine launched a major attack against pro-Russian forces around the city of Slaviansk in the early hours of Friday. Rebels shot down two Ukrainian helicopters and killed one crewmember, according to the leader of Slaviansk's self-defense forces Vyacheslav Ponomaryov.

Ponomaryov accused the Ukrainian authorities of launching the attack using heavy weapons, saying the self-defense forces had to withdraw into the city.

Ukrainian defense ministry confirmed the loss of the two helicopters, but said two crewmembers were killed.

It added the helicopters were shot down with a surface-to-air missile, which proved the rebels were not civilians but well-equipped and well-trained military.

Ukraine Interior Minister Arsen Avakov warned Slaviansk residents to remain indoors while anti-terrorism operations proceeded in the city.

Related:

Protesters storm prosecutor's office in Ukraine's Donetsk: report

KIEV, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Pro-Russia protesters stormed the prosecutor's office in the eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk on Thursday, according to Interfax-Ukraine news agency.  Full story

Putin urges immediate national dialogue within Ukraine

MOSCOW, May 1 (Xinhua) -- President Vladimir Putin called Thursday for an immediate extensive national dialogue in Ukraine, amid rising tension in that country's east and southeast.

Putin emphasized that it was imperative today to withdraw all military units from the southeastern regions (of Ukraine) and stop the violence, the Kremlin press service said, citing a telephone conversation between Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Full story

Russia warns Ukraine against military operation in southeast

MOSCOW, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Russian Foreign Ministry urged Ukraine not to use armed force in its southeastern regions Thursday, saying it would lead to a catastrophe.

Moscow is seriously worried by media reports about the Kiev regime's plans to carry out a special assault operation in the southeastern regions of the country using ultra-nationalist Right Sector units, it said in a statement. Full story

Van Rompuy says need to aid Ukraine financially during visit to Prague

PRAGUE, April 30 (Xinhua) - The President of European Council Herman Van Rompuy said Wednesday the EU should help stabilize the situation in Ukraine not only through diplomatic steps but also financially.

Van Rompuy made the remarks during his meeting with Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka in Prague. Full story"
