"MOSCOW, May 18 /ITAR-TASS/. Museum collections around the globe will take part in the International Museum Day-2014 under the motto of “Museum Collections Unite” on May 18.

“This year, the International Museum Day is being held with an aim to demonstrate the public role of museums in society’s development and reveal the existing links between various types of museum collections and the public,” Hans-Martin Hinz, president of the International Council of Museums, said.

“The world moves distancing itself from traditional forms of relations. Therefore, museums should find new ways to attract visitors and make their collections more available in order to arouse public interest,” Hans-Martin Hinz.

Collections of leading museums will participate in the action in Moscow. Employees of the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts will take visitors on excursions via the museum rooms and organize master classes for children. Entrance will be free for all.

People will have a chance to get behind the wings of museum life and see how canvasses, ceramics and sculpture are restored. Restorers will give an open class in the main building of the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts.

Irina Antonova, the director of the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, will deliver a speech at the Museion education center, which will also feature a photo show devoted to the Rouen Cathedral. The programme will also include a meeting with poet Irina Zatulovskaya and a piano concert.

The Tretyakov Picture Gallery will also open the doors to visitors. Its permanent expositions and exhibitions will work as usual: “Only Italy! Architectural Graphic XVIII-XXI Centuries”, “Alexander Golovin. The Silver Age Fantasies”, “Anna Gubkina. A Jubilee Exposition Devoted to the 150th Anniversary of Her Birth”, “The Art of Pastel Paint. From the Stocks of XVIII - Early XX Century Graphics” and other expositions.

The State Historical Museum on Red Square will organize exhibitions called “A Myth about Our Favourite Leader” and “A Nomad. Between the Sky and Earth.” The Chamber of the Romanov Boyar Family and the Church of the Holy Protection will also be open to visitors.

The International Museum Day, the world museum’s community chief holiday, has been marked on May 18 since 1977. The number of collections taking part in the project grows from year to year.

Thirty-five thousand museums from 143 countries took part in the holiday in 2013."
