"MOSCOW, April 28. /ITAR-TASS/. Russid's government is to review the implementatrion of state programmed in 2013 on Monday. This is one of almost ten items that are on the agenda a Cabinet meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, the government press service reported.

The Minsters are also to discuss a project for the establishment of the institution of a financial commissioner for the rights of the users of services being provided by financial organizaions. This initiative is is aimed at streamlining the procedure for a settlement of disputes between the users of financial organizations' services natural persons and financial organizations by ensuring a rapid, effective and pre-judicial settlement of such disputes free of charge. Respective bills suggest a compulsory participation of crrdit-lending and insurance organizations in the institution of a financial commissioner, because the largest number of disputes concern those organizations.

In order to ensure the activities of a financial commissioner it is suggested establishing a non-commercial organization a Financial Commissioners Service in the form of a non-profit partnership. The bills suggest that the Bank of Russia be the founder of such a Service.

The agenda also includes an item regarding amendments to the Federal Law On Military Duty and Military Service. Social relations arising in the event conclusion drawn by the draft commissin that a citizen did not do military service under conscription without legal grounds.

The members of the Cabinet of Ministers are to take a decision on establishing a system for an independent assessment of the quality of work of organizations which render services in the fields of culture, social care-giving, health protection, and education. The quality of work is evaluated for the purpose of providing the service users with information on the quality of services being rendered, and with a view to raising the quality of the said organization's work. With this end in view, it is necessary to set up public councils.

The agenda also includes an items about simplifying the procedure for interaction between participants in foreign economic activities and customs agencies and enabling declaration filers to choose at their discretion a customs agency for a customs clearing of goods. The respective bill also automatizes control over the classification of import or export commodities.

Besides, the Ministers are to make a decision on changing the privatization programme for the 2014-2016 period. It is suggested that the privatization of the Federally-owned property of eleven fishery research intitutes be excluded from the forecast plan in view of their being transformed into state budget-supported institutions, as well as the FGUP (Federal state unitary enterprise) Passport and Visa Service of Russia's Federal Migration Service.

The government is also expected to make decisions on the allocation of subsidies from the Federal budget for co-financing of capital inputs into facilities of the RF regions under the subprogrammme The Development of Physical Culture and Mass Sports and for co-financing the regions ''expenditure obligations on the development of beef cattle breeding and plant-growing.

It is also expected to discuss legislation amendments connected with the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Magadan Region. The respective bill envisages an extension of the period of the functioning of the SEZ until December 31, 2025, and the establishment of preferential conditions for entrepreneurial activities.

International items on the agenda include the presentation of a proposal to the RF President on signing the protocol to the Treaty on a Nucleat Weapons Free Zone in Central Asia.

The document envision that all Parties to the Treaty (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan) renounce the development, production or acquisition of nuclear weapons, possession or exercise of control over nuclear weapons, deployment or use of nuclear weapons, and undertake to prevent such actions on the part of other states in their territories."
