"Putin: Kiev authorities are junta if they use force against civilians

If Kiev authorities have started to use force against the civilian population, this is a serious crime, Russian President Vladimir Putin said. Taking this action makes them a “junta” and may affect their relations with other countries, he added.

“If the Kiev regime started military actions against the
  country’s population, this is without doubt a very serious
  crime,” Putin said at All-Russia People's Front media forum.



  According to Putin current situation in East Ukraine is another
  proof Russia was right when it supported Crimeans, when they
  decided to have a referendum.


“[Otherwise] it would have seen there the same things which
  are now happening in the east of Ukraine, or even worse,” he
  said. “That’s one more proof to the fact we did it all right
  and in time.”


  Putin believes that the use of force by the coup-imposed
  government in Kiev means that it’s actually a junta.


“If current authorities in Kiev have done this [used force],
  then they are junta,” the president said. “For one
  thing, they don’t have nation-wide mandate. They might have some
  elements of legitimacy, but only within the framework of the
  parliament. The rest of the government bodies are for various
  reasons illegitimate.”


  Vladimir Putin described the use of force in eastern Ukraine as a
  “reprisal raid” and said that it would have an impact on
  Russian-Ukrainian relations.
  
  Earlier in the day, fighting erupted just outside Slavyansk, a
  town in eastern Ukraine where the population voiced their protest
  against the Kiev authorities. Ukrainian troops in tanks and
  armored vehicles have been trying to break into the town.
  
  According to the Ukrainian Interior ministry, at least five
  self-defense guards have been killed and one policeman injured
  after the “anti-terrorist operation” launched by Kiev in the
  town. Three checkpoints erected by the anti-government protesters
  have also been destroyed.
  
  Self-defense forces managed to repel an attack at one checkpoint
  3 kilometers north of Slavyansk, forcing at least three infantry
  vehicles to retreat, Russia-24 TV reports.
  
  On Wednesday, authorities in Kiev announced they were resuming a
  military operation against protesters in eastern Ukraine, which
  they described as an “anti-terrorist” one.
  
  Protesters believe the move was contrary to the agreement on de-escalation reached in Geneva."
