"400 US mercenaries 'deployed on ground' in Ukraine military op

About 400 elite mercenaries from the notorious US private security firm Academi (formerly Blackwater) are taking part in the Ukrainian military operation against anti-government protesters in southeastern regions of the country, German media reports.


  The Bild am Sonntag newspaper, citing a source in intelligence
  circles, wrote Sunday that Academi employees are involved in the
  Kiev military crackdown on pro-autonomy activists in near the
  town of Slavyansk, in the Donetsk region.



  On April 29, German Intelligence Service (BND) informed
  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government about the mercenaries’
  participation in the operation, the paper said, RIA Novosti
  reported. It is not clear who commands the private military
  contractors and pays for their services, however.



  In March, media reports appeared suggesting that the coup-imposed
  government in Kiev could have employed up to 300 mercenaries.That
  was before the new government launched a military operation
  against anti-Maidan activists, or “terrorists” as Kiev put it, in
  southeast Ukraine.



  At the time, the Russian Foreign Ministry said then that reports
  claiming Kiev was planning to involve “involve staff from
  foreign military companies to ‘ensure the rule of law,’” could
  suggest that it wanted “to suppress civil protests and
  dissatisfaction.”



  In particular, Greystone Limited, which is currently registered
  in Barbados and is a part of Academi Corporation, is a candidate
  for such a gendarme role. It is a similar and probably an
  affiliated structure of the Blackwater private army, whose staff
  have been accused of cruel and systematic violations of human
  rights in various trouble spots on many occasions.



  “Among the candidates for the role of gendarme is the
  Barbados-registered company Greystone Limited, which is
  integrated with the Academi corporation,” the Foreign
  Ministry said in a statement. “It is an analogue, and,
  probably and affiliated body of the Blackwater private army,
  whose employees have repeatedly been accused of committing
  grievous and systematic human rights abuses in different troubled
  regions.”



  Allegations increased further after unverified videos appeared on YouTube of unidentified
  armed men in the streets of Donetsk, the capital of the country’s
  industrial and coalmining region. In those videos, onlookers can
  be heard shouting “Mercenaries!”“Blackwater!,”
  and “Who are you going to shoot at?”



  Academi denied its involvement in Ukraine, claiming on its
  website that “rumors” were posted by “some
  irresponsible bloggers and online reporters.”



  “Such unfounded statements combined with the lack of factual
  reporting to support them and the lack of context about the
  company, are nothing more than sensationalistic efforts to create
  hysteria and headlines in times of genuine crisis,” the US
  firm stated.



  The American security company Blackwater gained worldwide
  notoriety for the substantial role it played in the Iraq war as a
  contractor for the US government. In recent years it has changed
  its name twice – in 2009 it was renamed Xe Services and in 2011
  it got its current name, Academi.



  The firm became infamous for the alleged September 16, 2007
  killing of 17 Iraqi civilians in Baghdad. The attack, which saw
  20 others wounded, was allegedly without justification and in
  violation of deadly-force rules that pertained to American
  security contractors in Iraq at the time. Between 2005 and
  September 2007, Blackwater security guards were involved in at
  least 195 shooting incidents in Iraq and fired first in 163 of
  those cases, a Congressional report said at the time."
