"Fair Russia leader seeks to oust MP for opposing Crimea accession

Sergey Mironov has demanded that State Duma deputy, Ilya Ponomaryov, quit his post as his behavior damaged the reputation of the Fair Russia party. The MP replied that he would fight for his seat ‘to the end.’


  Mironov addressed Ponomaryov in an open letter published on
  social networks, in which he quoted the MP’s own recent statement
  opposing Crimea’s accession to the Russian Federation and calling
  Russia’s support of the Crimean referendum decision “a
  hypocritical and lowly deed.”Mironov went on to cesure
  Ponomaryov’s attitude to the Fair Russia party as “immoral
  and ignoble” and called for him to give up his parliamentary
  mandate.



  Ilya Ponomaryov was the only Lower House member who voted against
  the package of bills that allowed the accession.



  Mironov wrote in the letter that the public are generally unaware
  of the legal niceties that allow Duma deputies to remain in
  parliament after quitting the parties that brought them there.
  Technically, Ponomaryov was still a member of the Fair Russia
  caucus, despite recently leaving the party and this was causing
  reputational damage to the party, Mironov claimed.



  “Speaking for the whole party, I do not request, but demand –
  stop clinging to your seat, give up the mandate!” the letter
  reads.



  In addition, the Fair Russia leader reminded Ponomaryov of the
  political legacy of his family and asked him not to tarnish his
  family’s name. Ponomaryov’s mother, Larisa Ponomaryova, was a
  long time Upper House member and his great-uncle, Boris
  Ponomaryov, was a top Communist Party official in the Soviet
  Union.



  Ilya Ponomaryov was elected to the State Duma in 2007 and in 2011
  on Fair Russia’s ticket, but their ways parted after Ponomaryov,
  along with with two other MPs, took part in mass protests against alleged violations at the 2011
  parliamentary polls. Fellow parliamentarians, including Mironov,
  said that if Ponomaryov considered the elections to be unfair he
  should not occupy the seat received in the very same elections,
  but the MP refused to leave.


Another scandal involving Ponomaryov took
  place in early 2013 when a team of investigators discovered that
  a senior vice-president of the Skolkovo innovation hub paid the
  MP $750,000 to deliver 10 lectures and one research paper. The
  probe and subsequent court hearings proved these facts to be
  true. The executive in charge was suspended and the MP was
  ordered to return the money. Ponomaryov pleaded not guilty,
  saying that the fees were fair and proportional to the amount of
  work.



  Following this second scandal, Ponomaryov announced in October
  2013 that he was quitting the Fair Russia party, but would remain
  in the State Duma as Russian law allows this.



  Ponomaryov reiterated this intention in comments to Mironov’s
  open letter – “This is not going to happen – I received this
  mandate from the voters of Novosibirsk Region and I will fight to
  the end for the interests of my region and my country,” the
  Interfax news agency quoted him as saying.



  In early April, several deputies from the nationalist party LDPR
  drafted a parliamentary statement on depriving four Fair Russia
  MPs of their places in parliament for not supporting the bills on
  Crimea’s reunification with Russia (Ponomaryov voted against and
  the other three abstained from voting). However, the document was
  rejected as it contradicted the federal law on the status of
  State Duma deputies that only allows such moves in extraordinary
  cases like high-profile criminal probes against politicians."
