"Kiev’s troops roll through E.Ukraine in ‘bid to disrupt voting’ – self-defense forces

A town in the Lugansk region has come under attack by Kiev's APCs, while in the Donetsk region Ukrainian troops have seized four polling stations, self-defense forces claim. This comes as autonomy referendums kick off in the country's southeast.


  “Around 15 APCs have come near Novoaydar,” Aleksey
  Chmilenko said. “Our self-defense guards are trying to stop
  the attack and prevent the vehicles moving farther in the
  direction of Lugansk.”



  Novoaydar election commission was reportedly evacuated by
  self-defense activists, after it had been attacked by National
  Guard troops.



  At the same time, representatives of another Lugansk region
  self-defense group, based in Krasny Luch, told
  RT that they have seen APCs in the region, but have not heard any
  fighting yet.



  Reports of sightings of Ukrainian APCs in various towns and
  villages in Lugansk region have been coming in throughout the
  day. One report said that as many as 45 APCs and two helicopters
  were moving from the Kharkov region in the direction of Lugansk.



    Åùå 
    #êğàñíîàğìåéñê áîåâèêè êàëàìîéñêîãî áàòàëüîí Äíåïğ ñğûâ
    ğåôåğåíäóìà pic.twitter.com/mGVnpitACP
    — Shvedova Elena (@eshvedova2012) 
    May 11, 2014


  On Sunday, Donetsk and Lugansk regions opened polling stations
  for a referendum seeking autonomy from the central government.
  Local self-defense forces boosted security, fearing that Kiev
  could stage provocations to disrupt the self-determination vote.



  Voting in four towns across Lugansk region has
  already been disrupted, as military vehicles block passage to
  polling stations, representatives of referendum coordination
  council told Interfax.



  “In four districts – Belokurakinsky, Svatovsky, Troitsky and
  Melovsky – APCs of the Ukrainian National Guard do not let
  residents pass to the referendum polling stations,” the
  sources said.



  Kiev’s armed forces also entered the town of
  Krasnoarmeysk in the Donetsk region and seized
  four school buildings where residents were voting in the
  referendum, Denis Pushilin, co-chairman of the Donetsk People’s
  Republic, told Itar-Tass.



  All the people in the election district were evacuated, he said,
  adding that all voting bulletins were saved and taken away by the
  electoral commission. Voting was also stopped.


They threatened us and said that they were sent by the Kiev
  authorities, Sergey, a local resident, told RT. He added
  that there were no casualties.



  Earlier in the day, shooting and artillery fire was heard on the
  outskirts of Slavyansk, in southeast Ukraine’s
  Donetsk region, RIA Novosti reported, citing its correspondent in
  the area.



  There have also been reports of a military operation going on in
  the town of Krasny Liman. Those emerged after communication was
  lost with two territorial self-determination referendum
  committees there, according to the head of the Central Election
  Commission of the self-proclaimed “Donetsk People’s Republic,”
  Roman Lyagin.



  About 1,500 residents of Barannikovo in Kremensky district of the
  Lugansk region are attempting to prevent Ukraine’s National
  Guard’s tanks and armored vehicles from entering their village,
  according to local self-defense.



  “I am hearing gunshots through the phone. I know that two
  people have been wounded,” Vasiliy Nikitin, the head of the
  press service for Lugansk People’s Republic referendum on
  independence told Interfax on Sunday.



  Meanwhile, the acting head of Ukraine’s presidential
  administration, Sergey Pashinsky, said Kiev’s military operation
  in the Donetsk region towns of Krasny Liman, Slavyansk and
  Kramatorsk was in its its final stage, adding that “a lot of
  separatists have been eliminated during the operation.” He
  would not provide any figures thought.



  During the military crackdown, the self-defence checkpoints near
  Slavyansk, Kramatorsk and Krasny Liman were destroyed, Ukraine’s
  Interior Ministry said, adding that there were no casualties
  among civilians. There is no information yet about the number of
  victims from the self-defense forces."
