"#FastFoodGlobal: Thousands of workers to stage a strike in 150 US cities, 32 other countries

Fast food employees are set to stage a global strike demanding for better salary and conditions. The protest is to take place across five continents: in 150 US cities and 32 other countries, including Germany, Belgium, Japan, Brazil and New Zealand.


  The strike is planned for May 15, and will involve the workers of
  McDonalds, Burger King, Wendy’s and KFC.



  Such chains, the organizers say, typically rely on a large number
  of part-time workers to avoid paying overtime, health insurance
  and other benefits. As a result, employees say they never know
  exactly how many hours of work they'll be given from week to
  week.



  On Wednesday, the first announcement of the walkout happened in
  New York, during a meeting between fast food industry employees
  and union leaders. Together, they discussed how to expand a
  movement that started in November 2012 with 200 fast food workers
  going on strike in New York.



  Since that event, thousands across the globe followed their lead,
  insisting that companies pay them a proper living wage.



  For example, in December, workers held rallies in hundreds of US
  cities, saying their take home pay was not enough to live on.


“It’s amazing that our fight for $15 and a union has inspired
  workers around the world to come together,” Ashley Cathey, a
  McDonald’s employee in Memphis, Tennessee, told Al Jazeera.
  “The highly-profitable fast food industry needs to know we
  won’t stop fighting until our voices are heard.”


  Ron Oswald, general secretary of the International Union of Food,
  Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied
  Workers’ Associations (IUF), said US fast food workers had
  inspired employees in the industry worldwide to join them “in
  a fight for higher pay and better rights on the job.”


  The IUF represents 12 million workers in 126 countries, and
  Oswald believes the organization is only starting to gain
  popularity.


“This is just the beginning of an unprecedented international
  fast food worker movement — and this highly profitable global
  industry better take note, he said in a statement.



  Some protesters in other countries say they are taking action
  specifically in sympathy with US workers. Louise Marie Rantzau, a
  McDonald's worker in Denmark, told USA Today that she makes $21
  an hour. She says she was surprised to hear that US employees
  have to stage strikes to make $15 an hour, and she says is
  committed to supporting their cause.



  The fast food workers’ efforts seem to be bearing fruit: for
  instance, in March, McDonald’s agreed to pay $1 billion to
  workers who launched an investigation into an alleged wage theft.
  Similar cases are set to be taken to court in Michigan and
  California. All in all, 90 percent of fast food workers reported
  that money was taken from their salaries against the law,
  according to a nationwide survey.



  Although the US Congress seemed unwilling to raise the minimum
  wage, several states and localities have raised their minimum
  wages over the past year or so.



  On May 1, Seattle’s mayor, Ed Murray, declared that the city’s
  minimum wage would be increased to $15 per hour, becoming the
  highest in the country, responding to labor union pressure after
  a high-profile campaign by newly elected Socialist Alternative
  council member Kshama Sawant, whose call for “$15 Now” has gained
  an echo in cities across the US.



  The federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour was last raised in
  2009."
