"Russia invested $200 bn in Ukraine over 20 years – Minister of Economic Development

?Over the past 20 years, Russia has invested around $200 billion in the Ukrainian economy, according to Alexey Ulyukaev, head of the Russian Ministry of Economic Development.


  Perhaps our European and US friends don't understand that we
  supported the Ukrainian economy...via artificially
  underestimating gas and other resource prices, granting Ukraine
  loans, etc. For the last twenty years, we invested around $200
  billion, the minister said in exclusive interview to RT.



  Ulyukaev emphasized that it is difficult to predict further
  development, but Moscow is interested in the stabilization of the
  situation in Ukraine.



  Anyways, Russia is interested in a peaceful and prosperous
  Ukraine. We will continue to search the way out of the Ukrainian
  crisis, and will orient on all regions and all social groups
  which shall define the future by their selves, Ulyukaev
  said.



  According to the minister, if Ukraine signs the EU association
  agreement, it would be necessary to revise different technical
  standards – sanitary and phytosanitary, veterinary, and other.
  Russia and Ukraine hold around 400 agreements, 40 of which are
  basic and cannot be “just put aside and forgotten.”



  It’s quite possible that it will force us to reconsider the
  duties and the collections systems, which exist at present
  between Ukraine and the countries of the Customs Union, such as
  Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan, Ulyukaev concluded.



  In April, Russian President Vladimir Putin estimated Russian help to Ukraine in the form
  of underestimated gas prices for the past four years at $35.4
  billion. He reminded that under contracts signed in 2009, Ukraine
  received 147.2 billion cubic meters of gas from Russia.



  Thus after signing the document, Kiev received some discounts –
  in particular within the Kharkov agreements of 2010, and also the
  agreements of November 2013. As a result of these two privileges,
  gas prices for Kiev fell in the first quarter of 2014 to $268.5.
  However, it jumped to $485 in April, after the cancelation of the Black
  Sea hosting deal."
