"Ex-Italian PM Berlusconi sympathizes with referendums in eastern Ukraine

The former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has declared, in an interview with Die Welt, that he understands the decision of the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics to split from Ukraine.

“The Ukrainian economy is currently in a difficult position.
  It seems reasonable to me when people from regions where
  conditions are most prosperous demand to declare
  independence,” the ex-premier told Die Welt.



  The ex-premier also underlined that there are other reasons the
  eastern Ukrainians have a right to ask for independence.
  Their attitude to the current rulers in Kiev is extremely
  negative,” he said.



  Also, Berlusconi expressed his sympathy with the Russian
  position.



  It will be very unfortunate if Russia again finds itself in
  isolation because of the events in Ukraine, the ex-prime minister
  said.



  On Sunday, hundreds of Italians participated in protests in Rome,
  in front of the Ukrainian embassy, against European media
  distorting news reports about the situation in Ukraine.


No to fascism, no to war, no to NATO in
  Ukraine! the participants of the peaceful protest chanted.


No one in Italy knows the truth about what's happening in
  Ukraine. We're being fed nothing but falsehoods. We must awaken
  our people, and slowly but surely they are becoming more
  aware, Julietto Kieza, organizer of the rally, public
  activist, prominent journalist and an ex-member of the European
  Parliament told the Itar-Tass news agency.



  Kieza called the current situation not just a “regional
  crisis,” but an unparalleled threat to all.


  Hugo Moro, one of the rally's participants, said that the
  Italians wanted to express their solidarity with the Ukrainians
  who had fallen victims to conspiracy and the new Nazi
  government in Kiev.


  Russia, in its turn, Kieza said, is the only country capable
  of opposing the ever-present dictate of the US.


  The inaugural Rome rally spread across Italy, and, according to
  Kieza’s words, took place in about 50 cities.



  On May 11, eastern Ukraine conducted a referendum, with the
  supporters of federalization in Lugansk and Donetsk declaring
  sovereignty.



  The authorities of the Donetsk People’s Republic also announced
  their intentions to unite with the Lugansk People’s Republic and
  all of southeastern Ukraine.



  The latest announcement comes amid the ongoing military operation
  that has taken the lives of dozens of Ukrainian army forces, and
  self-defense troops.



  The presidential election in Ukraine is set to take place on May
  25."
