"Rosneft and ExxonMobil approve 4 Arctic projects

?Rosneft, one of the world’s largest oil companies, has given the go ahead on four Arctic projects with US oil giant ExxonMobil, despite the US government’s attempt to derail business relations with sanctions.


  The two companies will develop hydrocarbon reserves in the Arctic
  waters of Russia, including the Laptev and Chukchi Seas, Rosneft
  said in a statement Monday.



  The projects will explore and develop four licensed oil-rich
  reservoirs: the Anisinsk-Novosibirsk and Ust-Olenksk shelf sites
  in the Laptev Sea zone, as well as the North-Wrangel-2 and
  South-Chukchi shelf reserves, the statement said. No financial
  details were provided.



  Rosneft also plans to team up with Texas-based ExxonMobil to
  explore the remote Kara Sea in August.



  Only Russian state-owned companies can obtain licenses to explore
  the Arctic, which has oil reserves estimated at 90 billion tons,
  or 13 percent of the world’s supply.



  Natural gas reserves stand at 1.67 trillion cubic meters, or 30
  percent of the world reserves, and liquefied natural gas weigh in
  at 44 billion barrels, or 20 percent of potential reserves.
  Abundant and untapped, oil and gas above Russia offers a great
  investment opportunity, but at the same time, it is expensive and
  laborious to explore and drill in the harsh Arctic climate, which
  is only possible in three short summer months.



  The most recent round of US-led sanctions against
  the Russian economy put Igor Sechin, the CEO of Rosneft, but not
  the company, under sanctions. If further sanctions are pursued
  and the company itself is targeted, it could complicate business
  in Russia.



  Exxon and Rosneft have non-Arctic projects, as well. A $300
  million Siberian shale drilling project will break ground in
  2014, and there are plans to develop one of Rosneft’s deepwater
  wells in the Black Sea as early as 2015. The Kara and Black Sea
  projects net 11.3 million acres at the end of 2013.



  Exxon Mobil also has a substantial stake in the Far East Sakhalin
  oil project, for which it plans to build a new platform this
  year. Total net acreage in Russia’s Pacific Ocean waters near
  Sakhalin Island was 85,000 acres at the end of 2014.



  Norway’s Statoil and Italy’s Eni oil companies also have oil
  projects with Rosneft."
