"Obama administration offers $27 million in additional help for Syrian rebels

The Syrian Opposition Council’s offices in the US will become formal diplomatic missions after receiving approval from the Obama administration on Monday. This comes ahead of high-level talks between the US and opposition leaders in Washington.


  The administration first recognized the Syrian Opposition Council
  as the legitimate representative of Syria in December 2012, but
  did not suspend the Syrian embassy - representing the Assad
  government - until this March. The opposition offices were
  considered informal liaison offices until Monday’s announcement,
  where they will become “foreign diplomatic missions” under US
  law, the Associated Press reports.


This is an important step in the path toward a new Syria,
  its recognition on the international stage, and its relations
  with Syrian nationals in the US, Ahmad al-Jarba, head of
  the Syrian National Coalition, said in a statement. “The new
  status provides a diplomatic platform for the Coalition to
  advance the interests of the Syrian people at all levels. This is
  a diplomatic blow against Assad's legitimacy and demonstrates how
  far the opposition has progressed.”

It's a reflection of our partnership with the coalition as
  the legitimate representative of the Syrian people, State
  Department spokeswoman Marie Harf told reporters.



  Jarba is embarking on his first official visit to Washington as
  the head of the SOC, CBS News reports. He will be joined by the
  new chief of staff of the Free Syrian Army (FSA), Brigadier
  General Abdelilah al-Bashir, his office told AFP, but State
  Department officials would not confirm.



  The SOC president made the announcement of the change in status
  via Twitter.



    Happy to announce that today, the US government has officially
    recognized our Syrian Coalition's Washington office as a
    Foreign Mission.
  
    — Ahmad Jarba (@A_Jarba) May
    5, 2014


  The move comes as Syrian President Bashar Assad runs for
  reelection in June. A senior US administration official denounced
  the election as a parody of democracy, AFP reports.
  Assad’s decision to hold the elections rings particularly
  hollow given that the regime is continuing to attack and massacre
  the very electorate that is purporting to represent, the
  official said.



  The formal recognition of the diplomatic missions is largely
  symbolic, as the two offices will not become the embassy in DC or
  the consulate in New York, AP reports. But the move was a key
  request by the Syrian opposition, who believe it will give them
  greater presence and credibility among Syrian expatriates in the
  US. It will allow the US government to assist the missions with
  banking and security services.



  There are key differences between a foreign diplomatic mission
  and an embassy or consulate. People working in the missions will
  not be granted diplomatic immunity, nor will they be allowed
  access to the assets or properties that belong to the Assad
  regime, CBS News reports. Even with its embassies suspended, the
  Assad’s government is still officially recognized by the US.



  During his visit, Jarba will meet with US Secretary of State John
  Kerry and members of the National Security Council and from the
  Treasury Department, according to CBS News. Al-Bashir is
  scheduled to meet with US officials “to discuss the supply of
  sophisticated weapons to the FSA to enable it to change the
  balance on the ground, his office told AFP.



  Along with the recognition, the administration promised an
  additional $27 million aid to the opposition council, as well as
  promising to step up its non-lethal assistance to moderate
  commanders in the Free Syrian Army, AP reports. The additional
  aid will bring the total US assistance to opposition groups to
  $278 million, according to the Guardian.



  The coalition is battling against Assad in the country’s civil
  war, which began with peaceful protests in March 2011. More than
  150,000 people have been killed and millions more have been
  displaced in the three years since fighting began. Assad’s forces
  are backed by Lebanese Hezbollah militants and pro-government
  militias, and have made recent battlefield gains, AP reports. In
  February, a second round of peace talks between the opposition,
  representatives of the Assad government, the US and Russia
  failed to
  reach an agreement."
