"‘Main point of Putin's proposal is to avoid a new confrontation over Ukraine'

There is support in Europe and Russia to avoid further confrontation over Ukraine, and the Russian president's road map for the Ukrainian crisis has the same goal, Lawrence Freeman from Executive Intelligence Review Magazine told RT.

RT:The Russian President Putin asked the
  south-eastern regions of Ukraine to postpone the planned autonomy
  referendum which would take place on May 11. If the autonomy vote
  does get delayed, is that a sign of a potential diplomatic way
  forward to resolve the conflict?

Lawrence Freeman: I think President Putin is
  actually strategically handling the situation quite well because
  he knows that there are people who would like to see this
  conflict escalate into a major war. So he is outmaneuvering the
  people behind this, people around the British Empire crowd and
  financial crowd, and he is doing a good job of it. So this
  proposal by him is a way of a game avoiding a new confrontation
  with people that would like to have it with Russia.


RT:The US State Department still doesn't
  think Russia is doing enough. What else do they expect Moscow to
  do?

LF: You have to keep in mind that the State
  Department and particularly Victoria Nuland have been behind this
  coup at the end of last year. These are the people who are
  actually running the show, probably more than Obama, he is just a
  puppet at this stage. And they want to force the confrontation.
  They have been lying about the entire situation since February
  21-22 and the truth of matter is the US government, the US State
  Department, President Obama supported Nazis, Svoboda and Right
  Sector who carried out overthrow of the government. And the lies
  coming out of the US New York Times, The Washington Post and
  media have nothing telling the truth without who is actually
  responsible for the confrontations in Kiev and in the eastern
  Ukraine.


RT:And do you think the US and the EU will
  make any concessions of their own now, to try and help resolve
  the crisis?

LF: Don’t forget there has been an enormous
  amount of disagreement with President Obama on how to handle
  Russia. This is an all-out war going on inside the German
  government, inside the CDU, CSU, inside the German military and
  in other countries in Europe that now do not agree with the
  sanctions and realize they will be suicidal and destroying their
  economies which are already extremely weak because of the
  enormous amount of fictitious derivatives that dominate the
  banking system. I think that there is support for rational people
  in Germany and elsewhere to avoid the further confrontation and I
  think they have made it known to President Putin in various
  informal ways as well.


RT:Do you think Kiev will continue its
  military operation against the people in East Ukraine? Or will
  authorities stop it and start negotiations?

LF: They have to if they want to have a country.
  They cannot allow neo-Nazis and right-wing fascists to run the
  government being part of the military and security operation. If
  they want to be a country they can’t do that. The other problem
  Ukraine has is that the IMF now is coming in. Every time the IMF
  comes to your country, look out. Prices are going to rise,
  subsidies are going to be reduced, pensions are going to be
  reduced and the IMF will actually end up killing more people than
  any other institution if they can get away with it.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
