"MOSCOW, May 13 (RIA Novosti), Lyudmila Chernova – The reaction of the US and EU to referendums in Ukraine's Donetsk and Luhansk regions over the weekend is as unfortunate as it was predictable, Daniel McAdams, Executive Director of the Ron Paul Institute for Peace and Prosperity told RIA Novosti Tuesday.

“It almost seems as if the US and EU has become intoxicated with their own propaganda spin,” McAdams said.

McAdams added that the US and EU consider the overthrow of an elected government in Kiev democratic without a vote.

“But when, in reaction to the overthrow, people in the east actually do decide to hold an election to determine the will of the people, it is called ‘undemocratic’ and ‘illegitimate,’” McAdams said.

“So voting is undemocratic to the US and EU – unless of course it is in elections pre-approved by the EU and US, with millions of dollars in ‘democratic assistance’ to assure that the ‘right’ people win,” he added.

The expert called hypocritical Catherine Ashton’s statement that “those who organized the referendum have no democratic legitimacy.”

“The Spokesperson for EU foreign policy chief herself has never been elected to office yet she claims democratic legitimacy as head of EU foreign policy,” he noted.

McAdams said the referendum was conducted in less than optimal conditions.

“Much of the problems with the voting centered on Kiev forces blocking access and shooting unarmed civilians attempting to vote,” he stressed.

“While it is difficult to judge from a distance, it appears the voting went about as well as could be expected in the situation. Voters and electoral commission workers both took great risks in attempt to measure the will of the people,” the expert added.

On Sunday, popular referendums in Donetsk and Luhansk saw voters overwhelmingly back the move to separate from Kiev. The decision was immediately declared illegal by the US and EU.

The Kremlin said in a statement Monday it respected the will of the people in Ukraine’s southeast and urged the regime in Kiev to do the same. The Kremlin said it condemned “the use of force including military hardware against peaceful citizens which led to deaths” during the referendums."
