"Britain, France deploy 8 fighter jets to Lithuania and Poland

UK and France deployed eight fighter jets to Lithuania and Poland to strengthen NATO air defense over the Baltic regions amid rising tensions in Ukraine, according to officials.


  Out of the eight planes, four UK Typhoon jets touched down in
  Lithuania and another four French Rafale jets landed in Poland’s
  northeast town of Malbork, UK and French defense ministries
  stated.



  The additional jets in the area are to “provide reassurance
  to our NATO allies in eastern Europe and the Baltic states,”
  British Defense Minister Philip Hammond said.


In the wake of recent events in Ukraine, it is right that
  NATO takes steps to reaffirm very publicly its commitment to the
  collective security of its members, Hammond added.



  The Polish city of Malbork has already received 70 French
  military personnel to support the new planes, according to French
  military spokesman Colonel Gilles Jaron.



  Also on Monday, the US airborne division, which is to take part
  in NATO exercise 'Spring Storm' in May arrived in Estonia. Around
  150 personnel arrived in the military transport aircraft to the
  Amari airbase, according to the country’s defense ministry.



  Earlier, UK and France contributed AWACS early-warning aircraft
  to strengthen the fair defense system over Poland and Romania.



  The United States announced last Tuesday that it is deploying 600
  airborne troops on exercises in Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and
  Estonia as a show of solidarity with NATO members that border
  Russia and have been worried by the escalation of tensions.



  In April, NATO said it will be increasing security in the Baltic
  region in light of escalating crisis in Ukraine. On top of the
  increasing presence of fighter jets, NATO also sent ships to
  patrol the Baltic Sea and eastern Mediterranean.



  On Monday, Russia’s Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu has urged his Pentagon counterpart Chuck Hagel to
  help cool down the rhetoric over Ukraine and described NATO
  troops massing near Russian borders as “unprecedented.”


  Speaking to Hagel by phone on Monday, Shoigu classified the
  growth of NATO activity in Eastern Europe as
  “unprecedented,” saying it was accompanied by
  “provocative” rhetoric about “containing”
  Russia.



  The Baltic States gained independence from the USSR in 1991 and
  joined NATO in 2004 but lack sufficient aircraft to police their
  own skies, so larger NATO members take turns in patrolling for
  them."
