"This is just a test: Philippines, US kick off major war games in Pacific

More than 5,000 US and Filipino soldiers have begun war games in the region at a time of increased tension – especially from the regional power, China - over America’s growing military footprint in the Pacific.


  The two-week naval exercises, dubbed Balikatan
  (shoulder-to-shoulder), are ostensibly designed to help the two
  allies respond to emergencies, including piracy and natural
  disasters.



  Nearly 5,500 American and Filipino service personnel will
  participate in the naval games, which will involve the
  participation of US F-18 fighter jets and soldiers involved in
  live ammo exercises, on the main island of Luzon.



  The maneuvers, held on the edge of the South China Sea, come just
  one week after Manila and Washington hammered out the details of a new security agreement, the
  Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement, which gives the US Navy
  broader access to local ports and military bases.



  Given the current realities in the region, no military maneuvers
  can occur without some level of suspicion from neighboring
  powers.



  Philippine Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario made a veiled
  reference to China, with whom Manila has had territorial
  conflicts, when he said the exercises would help counter
  “excessive and expansive maritime and territorial
  claims.

The aggressive patterns of behavior, aimed at changing the
  status quo, threaten peace and stability in the region. Balikatan
  2014 with its focus on maritime security strongly supports our
  capabilities to address these challenges.


  Del Rosario then commented on the dozens of protesters who
  gathered in central Manila to speak out against the heightened
  American presence in the Philippines, which many believe is
  leading to tense relations with China.


It is silly that China is even being mentioned since the US
  has expressed its non-committal (sic) to defend the Philippines
  in the event of an armed confrontation with China, said
  Renato Reyes, Bayan (Nation) secretary-general.



  China and the Philippines have exchanged threats over ownership
  rights to the Spratly Islands, an archipelago in the South China
  Sea, which is believed to contain a vast quantity of oil and
  natural gas reserves. The islands, which spread over more than
  425,000 square kilometers (164,000 square miles) of water, are
  also claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, Taiwan and Vietnam.



  Asked about the joint exercises in its geopolitical backyard,
  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said all sides
  needed to work constructively to maintain peace and
  stability in the Asia Pacific region.


We hope that the relevant US-Philippines drills can work in
  this direction, she told a daily news briefing.



  The annual naval maneuvers between American and Filipino troops
  date back to the 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty, a leftover military
  collaboration along the lines of NATO, assembled during the
  height of the Cold War."
