"US to spend $317 million on British intel hub upgrade - report

Washington is to upgrade RAF Croughton, one of its UK bases allegedly involved in mass surveillance and drone strikes, to make it the largest intel hub outside mainland US and a center for its operations in Africa, The Independent on Sunday reports.


  The US government will spend $317 million upgrading Royal Air
  Force (RAF) Croughton, a US Air Force base in Northamptonshire,
  in southern England, to an ultra-secure intelligence facility
  with up to 1,250 personnel. It will become a new center for US
  counter terrorism activities called Africom or Africa Command,
  according to the report.



  The new plans will include an installation for the Defense
  Intelligence Agency, the Pentagon’s main military intelligence
  service and will see Croughton grow in size and importance to
  that of RAF Menwith Hill in North Yorkshire by 2017.



  Menwith Hill is the National Security Agency (NSA’s) main
  listening post in Europe and is co-staffed with members of the
  British intelligence family.



  The USAF briefing document, seen by The Independent on Sunday,
  makes it clear that RAF Croughton will be at the forefront of
  intelligence activities and will also include personnel from
  British spy agencies.



  The upgrade will reportedly involve consolidating six existing US
  intelligence groups, which are currently based at RAF Molesworth
  and RAF Alconbury in Cambridgeshire into one facility at
  Croughton. The Pentagon has said that the project will save at
  least $75 million a year and that accommodation for staff at RAF
  Molesworth is outdated and unsuitable.



  RAF Croughton, which is just 20 miles from Prime Minister David
  Cameron’s constituency, already has a direct cable link with the
  British government’s GCHQ in Cheltenham and is currently used as
  a CIA communications relay station.



  It was revealed last year that British Telecom laid a high speed
  fiber-optic cable between RAF Croughton and Camp Lemonnier in
  Djibouti, the Horn of Africa, where the US has a major
  counterterrorism operations base used for operating drone strikes
  in Yemen.



  The communications link between the two bases led to concern that
  RAF Croughton is also to be used in drone operations, although
  the British government has strenuously denied this.



  The Ministry of Defence (MoD) insists that US personnel at
  Croughton “neither fly nor control any manned or remotely
  piloted aircraft anywhere in the world.”


  It was also reported by The Independent last November that RAF
  Croughton was used to send back information from the CIA’s global
  network of spy listening stations in US embassies, including the
  Berlin station where the NSA allegedly hacked Chancellor Angela
  Merkel’s phone calls.



  The news that Croughton is to be upgraded has sparked anger among
  campaigners and senior politicians that there is no proper
  oversight of US bases in the UK. US bases in Britain are
  currently governed by a law dating back to 1951, when
  surveillance technology was in its infancy.


“The new spend of $317 million on facilities at RAF Croughton
  is a shocking revelation. There can be no doubt now that
  communications activities there must be thoroughly reviewed, and
  arrangements governing the use of the base updated,” said
  Labour MP Tom Watson, a former Defense Minister.



  According to a report in The Guardian last year, the UK
  government has no plans to change or update the legal basis of US
  bases in Britain.


“There is no requirement for an additional agreement
  regarding the use of RAF Croughton by the United States visiting
  forces, the Department [MoD] has no plans to review this
  arrangement nor review the activities undertaken by the US at the
  base,” an unnamed government minister told the paper.



  On Saturday, the MoD again insisted, when asked by The
  Independent, that under “no circumstances” could bases
  “made available to the US be used operationally without the
  agreement of Her Majesty’s Government.”


  But Lindis Percy, coordinator of the Campaign for the
  Accountability of American Airbases, said there needs to be
  debate in the UK parliament on the issue.


“This massive new development at Croughton is clearly of
  great importance to the American military and government, but
  what say has the British Parliament or the Ministry of Defence
  had?” she said.



  The weak regulation of US bases in the UK has led some
  commentators to compare Britain to George Orwell’s description of
  the UK in his novel, 1984, as “Airstrip One”,
  subservient to a US-led super-state."
