"Russia holds military drills to repel nuclear strike

President Vladimir Putin has overseen military drills on countering nuclear strike. The planned drills come ahead of the May 9 celebrations dedicated to victory in World War II.

We are carrying out tests of the readiness of the Russian
  armed forces. It was announced last November. The exercises will
  involve all branches of the armed forces across the
  country, Putin told reporters at the Defense Ministry.



  Modern challenges and threats to the country’s national security
  demand that the army and the fleet are maintained in readiness
  for quick and effective retaliation in any conditions, the
  Russian Defense Minister and army general Sergey Shoigu told
  Putin in a report.



  During the drills, it was demonstrated how the missile corps,
  artillery, aviation and anti-aircraft defenses can be used – for
  instance, to destroy troops on the ground or to counter massive
  missile, aviation or nuclear strikes by an enemy.



  Plus, it was shown how to inflict a launch-through-attack strike
  with nuclear missiles.



  The training exercises, which are due to include ground troops
  and artillery as well as the air force, were held during a summit
  of heads of state of a security bloc made up of former Soviet
  states.



  Led by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russian aerospace
  defense troops have successfully overridden a massive nuclear
  missile strike, an official representative of the Russian Defense
  Ministry told RIA Novosti news agency.


At the Priozersk training area (Kazakhstan), a successful
  interception of a ballistic target by a short-range
  countermissile was carried out. A massive rocket nuclear strike
  was repelled by a ballistic missile defense unit of air and
  missile defense troops, the representative said.



  The representative also detailed that the combat crews of Armies
  of Aerospace Defense have discovered and accompanied the
  ballistic targets with the launch of a short-range interception
  missile of the Amur complex.


“The anti-missile system successfully struck the target that
  imitated a ballistic rocket,” the representative added.



  The strategic weapon carrier Tu-95MC conducted launches of six
  cruise missiles aiming at targets on the ground in the aviation
  training area of the Western military district, as part of the
  drills.



  The simulated targets were key facilities of military
  infrastructure of a hypothetical enemy.



  All the targets were hit as planned, Russia’s Defense Ministry
  confirmed.



  The presidents of Belarus, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan
  observed the drills from the Russian National Defense Command
  Center.



  Strategic bomber aircraft and underwater missile carriers of the
  Pacific and Northern fleets were involved in the drills. Also,
  strategic land-based mobile missile systems, as well as the
  missile corps of the Southern and Central military districts,
  participated in the tests."
