"Russian planes have not entered Ukrainian airspace - Moscow

Russian military aircraft have not breached any state borders, including those of Ukraine, Russia’s Defense Ministry has said. Ukraine’s acting defense minister has also retracted claims by Kiev that Russian jets “violated Ukrainian airspace seven times.”

“Russia’s means of objective airspace situation control did
  not record any violations of air boundaries of the states
  adjacent to Russia, including those of Ukraine,” Russian
  Defense Ministry said in a statement Saturday.



  Pentagon officials quoted by US media Friday claimed that
  “Russian fighter jets flew into Ukrainian airspace a handful
  of times over the last 24 hours,” calling it “a
  continued provocation.” The officials were not named.
  “The unfounded claims of Pentagon officials on the alleged
  ‘breaching of airspace of Ukraine by Russian fighter jets’
  appears to have been based on rumors and speculation,” a
  Russian Defense Ministry spokesman told Itar-Tass on Saturday.


“Those media allegations are populist in nature, they contain
  no information on the time and place of the incident, as well as
  no data on altitude, speed and the direction of aircraft, as well
  as no other objective parameters,” the spokesman said.
  
  The US sources must have “dreamed it all up,” or “a
  little bird told them that,” the spokesman added.



  The Defense Ministry spokesman called on Pentagon officials to
  stop “spreading unverified ‘facts’ through the media,”
  saying that “it does not at all help de-escalate the
  situation in Ukraine.”


  Instead, the US Defense Department should “use the many
  years’ experience of cooperation on information interchange”
  with the Russian side.



  The Ukrainian coup-imposed acting defense minister, Mikhail
  Koval, on Saturday told journalists that no violations of state
  borders by the Russian aircraft or troops have been recorded.
  “Four [Russian] transport airplanes Il-76 were flying along
  our state border but they did not cross the borderline,”
  Koval was quoted as saying by Interfax-Ukraine.



  The “peak of activity” of the Russian Armed Forces
  conducting military exercises near the Ukrainian border
  was recorded on April 24-25, he said. The closest that the
  Russian troops came to the Ukrainian border was 2-3 kilometers,
  Koval said.
  
  According to the Ukrainian official, the Russian drills were
  meant to discourage Kiev from continuing with the so-called
  “anti-terrorist operation” in three southeastern regions
  of Ukraine. However, he added, the military operation continues
  “although its pace is not high.”


  Koval’s statements, made during the Saturday briefing, apparently
  contradicted the allegations earlier made by the Kiev government
  against Russia.
  “Russian military aircraft today at night crossed and
  violated Ukrainian airspace seven times. The only reason is to
  provoke Ukraine... and to accuse Ukraine of waging war against
  Russia,” the coup-imposed Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny
  Yatsenyuk claimed during his visit to the Italian capital, Rome.
  Yatsenyuk, who had previously made similar unfounded allegations of “Russian tanks in Crimea”
  and “nuclear weapons in Iran,” was speaking to reporters
  in English."
