"Can the EU build an empire without a bearded lady?

As the EU continues to drift beyond feasible parody, a new champion of Europe has overnight become more recognizable than any euro-candidate.


  A seminal moment or three has arrived in the European
  Parliamentary election process. Pan-European engagement in the
  process beyond the candidates and media, who are desperate to
  keep felling trees daily, has comprehensively failed. Even one EU
  President, Herman Van Rompuy, has used the ever-decreasing Euro
  election turnout trend as a means to deprecate the hunt in the
  elusive ‘President Nemo’process.



  In one of several remarkable outbursts recently, the former
  Belgian Prime Minister noted that with electoral apathy
  widespread, the European parliament has little democratic
  legitimacy to elect a popular President. Alas the logical
  rationalization to just abandon the whole Euro farago escapes
  him: with a Kafka-esque twist, Van Rompuy suggests even more
  totalitarian power should be vested in the entirely unelected
  coterie of Eurofanatics whose only solution to any problem is:
  ‘more Europe’ (even when the issue appears to be a problem with
  Europe itself). A remarkably deft syllogism would be one verbose
  description for this remarkable hypocrisy from the ‘only
  democratic when it suits him,’ Mr Van Rompuy. “Utter
  self-serving drivel” might however more suit the zeitgeist
  of the age as Eurosceptical parties are rising so swiftly that
  Eurofanatics are discussing a ‘grand coalition’ to ensure the EU
  can keep strangling the continent with red tape and flawed
  policies.



  Meanwhile mainstream Europhile media have barely mentioned Mr Van
  Rompuy’s latest somewhat messianic outburst, an interview perhaps
  more suitable to the heyday of Europe’s absolute monarchs.
  Speaking with Dutch newspaper De Standaard, Van Rompuy made a
  series of remarkable assertions. The overall tone was akin to
  something much more pre-WWII in scope, leading some in the
  blogosphere to publish photographs with additional swastika flags
  behind EU Presidents’ Van Rompuy and Barroso.



  Likening the EU to the horrors of the Nazis is a pretty savage
  charge but then again there was a whiff of a spirit akin to
  “Ein Volk, Ein Reich, Ein Rompuy” in the interview as
  the unelected president made an unapologetic bid to expand the
  EU’s remit throughout Europe, including the former Yugoslavia,
  right up to Russia’s borders. The EU’s disastrous Ukrainian
  manipulations, it seems, are only part of a breathtakingly
  arrogant grand design.



  A truly frightening element of Mr Van Rompuy’s comments is that
  he expressly endorses EU expansionism regardless of what the
  people want! To wit, if voters don’t support EU expansion well
  beyond the current 28 members, then Van Rompuy believes his cadre
  of unelected eurocrats must push ahead, executing the
  Euro-expansion plan regardless of any public opposition to
  maneuvers by Brussels. Perhaps even more terrifying than the
  arrogant hubris of such outrageous comments is the desire of the
  federal fanatics not merely to shoehorn unsuspecting sovereign
  states into a single nation structure, but also to create a
  pan-European defense force - all overseen by the same shadowy
  unelected clique.



  Meanwhile, despite the best efforts of the media cheerleaders for
  Brussels’ machinations, which endeavor to reverse popular
  disengagement with the upcoming Euro Parliament vote (in a
  fortnight), we have seen at least one quantum shift during the
  past few days. This year’s annual glamfest, the uber-kitsch
  Eurovision Song Contest has now delivered somebody who has more
  recognition than any existing eurocrat, or the various folk
  vainly criss-crossing the EU, purporting to be presidential
  candidates while channeling their ‘inner Nemo.’


  Some 180 million TV viewers watched an Austrian ‘bearded’ lady
  scoop the Eurovision prize at the weekend with a remarkable blend
  of ‘blingspiel’ and ‘chutzpah.’ Thus Thomas Neuwirth via
  his performing alter ego, Conchita Wurst, has leapfrogged in
  public consciousness to become palpably more recognizable to
  European voters than any of the leading Euro Parliament
  candidates, including identikit Nemo-presidential wannabes and,
  indeed, even incumbent presidents: Portugal’s most famous Maoist
  export, Jose Barroso and his fellow ‘tweedle-president’
  exemplifying the democratic deficit at the heart of Europe: Mr
  Van Rompuy himself. Who knows, perhaps in an effort to be more
  recognizable to voters, we will see leading candidates dressing
  in sleek tight-waisted sequined dresses to attract attention on
  the hustings? Socialist leader Martin Schulz has the prerequisite
  beard already.



  Accepting the Eurovision trophy, Conchita Wurst uttered the
  memorable line: “'We are unity and we are unstoppable.”
  Doubtless President Van Rompuy was humming along to this refrain.
  Perhaps he will even nominate sequined superstar Conchita as his
  presidential replacement…



  At least people know who she is.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
