"UN Ukraine report shows double standards in attempt to whitewash Kiev's actions - Russia

Moscow has accused a UN report on violence in Ukraine’s Odessa of being purposefully blind to hard facts and simply “carrying out a political order to whitewash” the actions of the coup-appointed government in Kiev.


  The Russian foreign ministry believes that the report presented
  by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is marked by a
  systematic and routine ignorance of any Kiev involvement in
  sparking the Odessa carnage, while placing all the blame
  unequivocally with the pro-Russian self-defense forces. The
  ministry statement remarks that not a single word was said about
  neo-Nazi elements who engaged in setting buildings on fire with
  people inside, shooting dead anyone who opposed them and
  finishing off the wounded in plain sight.



  This especially concerns the events that took place in the House
  of the Trade Unions on May 2.



  The foreign ministry believes that such “double
  standards” are a clear indicator of the international
  organization’s mission to pander to a select side in the
  conflict, without any regard for hard evidence.



  The United Nations spoke on Friday of the “alarming
  deterioration” of the human rights situation in eastern
  Ukraine. The report by the organization’s head for human rights,
  Navi Pillay, focuses on the findings of the Human Rights
  Monitoring Mission in Ukraine (HRMMU) in the period since April 2
  through to May 6. It speaks of the various rights violations
  encountered and offers recommendations to the current Ukrainian
  government, noting also its willingness to cooperate with the
  monitors. The report tries to underline how Kiev is taking
  concrete steps to implement the Geneva agreement of April.



  Among other things, it also focuses on the problems the Tatar
  minority currently faces in Crimea - although there’s no mention
  of Kiev blocking the region’s freshwater supply – which
  “violates a whole range of human rights”.



  Moscow goes on to note that Pillay’s monthly report failed to
  mention certain crucial facts: starting with the arson and the
  coordinated murders; the inaction by Ukraine’s law enforcement,
  as well as the multiple arrests of individuals rallying for
  federalization; the multiple kidnappings and instances of
  torture, as well as lack of any credible evidence to back up
  those actions. In this interpretation, “the entire story is
  basically being delivered as Kiev’s official line would have
  been.”


  The foreign ministry found it peculiar that “in some 30 pages
  of text, there is not one mention of any manifestation of
  aggressive nationalism and neo-Nazism in Ukraine.”


  Russia criticized the authors of the report for violating the
  principles enshrined in the UN Charter, which clearly dictates
  that political neutrality must be exhibited whatever the
  situation. When the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
  pronounced the Crimea referendum as 'illegal' following the suit
  of Kiev and its Western patrons, it seconded that it accepts a
  nation’s right to self-determination established by international
  human rights laws only when it is politically favorable,
  said the statement.



  The icing on the cake, in Moscow’s view, could be seen in the
  venue where the UN findings were presented – and by whom: in
  Kiev, by the UN secretary-general’s assistant, Ivan Shimonovich,
  who has a “reputation for a lack of objectivity, making
  sweeping judgments” and “unsubstantiated claims.”


  Shimonovich’s role in the presentation is seen as “an
  unambiguous indication” of the OHCHR’s bias and lack of
  independence and objectivity."
