"US honeybee population suffers 'unsustainable' death rate over the winter

Nearly one quarter of the US honeybee population died over the winter, according to an annual survey. Beekeepers report the losses remain higher than they consider sustainable, and the death rate could soon affect the country’s food supply.

“More than three-fourths of the world's flowering plants rely
  on pollinators, such as bees, to reproduce, meaning pollinators
  help produce one out of every three bites of food Americans
  eat,” the US Department of Agriculture said in a statement
  about the survey. Bees’ pollinating role adds $15 billion to the
  value of U.S. crops, including apples, almonds, watermelons and
  beans, according to government reports.



  The study,
  produced by a partnership between the USDA, the Apiary Inspectors
  of America and the Bee Informed Partnership, found that 23.2
  percent of honeybee colonies died over the winter, which is
  higher than the “acceptable winter mortality rate” of 18.9
  percent.



  The good news for the beekeeping and agricultural industries is
  that the 23.2 percent colony loss rate is lower than that of
  Winter 2012-2013, where 30.5 percent of colonies died.


Pollinators, such as bees, birds and other insects are
  essential partners for farmers and ranchers and help produce much
  of our food supply. Healthy pollinator populations are critical
  to the continued economic well-being of agricultural
  producers, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in the
  
  USDA statement. While we're glad to see improvement this
  year, losses are still too high and there is still much more work
  to be done to stabilize bee populations.


  Honeybee hives are generally inactive during the winter, when the
  colony survives by creating a winter cluster. The bees bundle
  together for warmth, which self-regulates the internal
  temperature in the cluster’s center, according to the Back Yard
  Beekeepers Association. This winter, record
  cold temperatures, marked by polar vortices sweeping down
  from the Arctic Circle, may have proved deadly to the bee
  population.


It was about the worst winter we've had in the past 20
  years, for bee management and surviving bees, Jerry
  Fischer, chief apiary inspector with the Maryland Department of
  Agriculture, said to the 
  Baltimore Sun. Maryland lost nearly 50 percent of its
  honeybee population, an increase over previous years, which
  averaged about a one-third loss annually. Fischer said that many
  of the colonies he inspected last summer appeared to not have
  stored up adequate honey supplies to survive the unusually harsh
  winter.



  A 
  Harvard study published earlier in May found that two popular
  insecticides - both of which are neonicotinoids - are the
  
  likely cause of Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD), the disease
  killing off honeybees and threatening pollination of the world’s
  crops. The researchers noted that the colder the winter, the more
  the severe the harm from the insecticides.


With the damning evidence mounting, pesticide companies can
  no longer spin their way out of this crisis, Michele Simon,
  a public health lawyer who specializes in food issues, told
  Reuters.



  But neonicotinoid producers, including Bayer AG, Monsanto Co and
  DuPont, argue that mites - not their products - are to blame for
  the devastating loss.


Yearly fluctuations in the rate of losses like these only
  demonstrate how complicated the whole issue of honey bee [health]
  has become, with factors such as viruses and other pathogens,
  parasites like varroa mites, problems of nutrition from lack of
  diversity in pollen sources, and even sublethal effects of
  pesticides combining to weaken and kill bee colonies, Jeff
  Pettis, co-author of the survey and research leader of the
  Agricultural Research Service (ARS) Bee Research Laboratory in
  Beltsville, Md., said in the USDA statement.



  BeeLogics, a Monsanto-owned bee health company and a collaborator
  on the annual survey, laid much of the blame for the colony
  collapses on the varroa mite, an Asian bee parasite first found
  in the US in 1987, Reuters reported.


What is clear from all of our efforts is that varroa is a
  persistent and often unexpected problem, Dennis
  vanEngelsdorp, an entomologist at the University of Maryland and
  the director of the Bee Informed Partnership, said in a USDA
  ARS
  statement. Every beekeeper needs to have an aggressive
  varroa management plan in place. Without one, they should not be
  surprised if they suffer large losses every other year or so.
  Unfortunately, many small-scale beekeepers are not treating and
  are losing many colonies. Even beekeepers who do treat for mites
  often don't treat frequently enough or at the right time. If all
  beekeepers were to aggressively control mites, we would have many
  fewer losses.


  This year’s Colony Loss 2013-2014 survey was conducted
  differently than in previous years, the researchers noted. It was
  the first time the scientists focused on summer colony loss as
  well. From April to October 2013, 20 percent of all colonies
  managed died, the study found. The combination of winter and
  summer losses was around 30 percent, vanEngelsdorp told Time.
  Been Informed Partnership and its collaborators hope the expanded
  survey will improve their understanding of CCD.


We used to think that winter was the critical period,
  vanEngelsdorp said in a news release. But during our field
  studies, beekeepers told us they were also losing colonies in the
  summer months. So we expanded the survey and found that, in fact,
  colonies are dying all year round."
