"US upping the ante in terms of brinkmanship in Eastern Europe

The US and NATO are encroaching on the sovereignty of Eastern European nations by upping their troop presence in the region , Rick Rozoff International affairs commentator, Stop NATO manager has told RT.

RT: The US and NATO have been steadily
  building up their military presence in Eastern Europe over the
  past decade with a view to asserting greater pressure on Russia
  and Belarus. We've seen several NATO drills in Eastern Europe
  since the crisis began in Ukraine. What do you think is the aim
  of these exercises?

Rick Rozoff: The military drills that are
  occurring from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea and in several
  countries in between, Poland for example, are in many cases
  pre-arranged or pre-scheduled military drills. Though in these
  cases, it's indicative of the permanent US and NATO military
  presence that's been developing in Eastern Europe over the last
  15 years, particularly over the last decade.



  We have also seen intensification of military drills and of the
  amount of military hardware and personnel that are being
  deployed. For example, we currently have 600 US airborne troops
  from 173rd airborne military unit - these are rapid reaction
  combat forces - stationed 150 each in Poland, Estonia, Latvia and
  Lithuania. Just recently concluded in Poland were multi-national
  paratroop drills with the US, Canada and Poland. We've seen naval
  drills in the Black Sea with Romania and a US warship. The USS
  Taylor is currently docked in the city of Batoumi and Adjara in
  Northern Georgia, dangerously close to Russia territory.



  So what you're seeing is both a series of ongoing drills, but
  also intensification in terms of numbers and in terms of size.


RT: What could Eastern European states like
  Romania gain from becoming training grounds for NATO troops?

Rick Rozoff: A fair amount of money, I suspect.
  The US reached an agreement through the State Department in 2008
  with the government in Bucharest to essentially take control of
  four major military bases in Romania which the US has not only
  ensconced itself in the interim, but has massively upgraded by
  spending millions, perhaps hundreds of millions, to modernize and
  expand those bases. They include naval and air bases which have
  already been used in military operations against Afghanistan and
  Libya. They have already been used for war fighting purposes and
  exist for exactly that purpose.



  What do the local residents get? Maybe, a few minor concessions.
  They can sell Pepsi Cola to US servicemen or something.



  But in return, what happens in nations like Romania is that they
  are placed in a situation where – should a military conflict
  erupt regionally – the people of Romania may be in harm's way by
  having their government make a deal with the Pentagon that is not
  to the benefit of the Romanian people in this instance.


RT: Is there a risk for the newer NATO
  members that they can see their sovereignty weakened, by losing
  control over military matters?

Rick Rozoff: We've seen the sovereignty of
  Eastern European countries trodden on and seriously jeopardized
  through the entire process of NATO and even the European Union
  integration. Keeping in mind that ten years ago in 2004, the
  largest ever one time expansion of NATO included seven new
  members at one time, Romania being one of those seven. The others
  of course were Bulgaria, Slovenia, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia and
  Lithuania, that is three former Soviet Republics and the Baltic
  Sea as well as two countries on the Black Sea.
  
  What we have seen is a steady encroachment on the military which
  has been transformed in these countries to achieve what is termed
  by Washington and NATO as “interoperability” which is to say the
  same military equipment which is approved by NATO nations will be
  purchased in lieu of Russian arms.



  Poland for example, at the beginning of the century, purchased 48
  F-16 multi-role combat aircraft from the US. That's the largest
  military purchase in Poland's history. Poland can only have been
  under pressure from the US to make such a monumental arms
  purchase. Also the 48 F-16s are certainly not for the Polish
  deployments in Afghanistan where they have never sent a jet
  fighter, they are aimed squarely at Russia and Belarus, there's
  no doubt about that.



  A comparable pressure had been placed on Romania and Bulgaria to
  purchase anywhere from 24 to 36 F-16 American warplanes, but
  because of the downturn in the world economy six years ago that's
  been deferred.



  What we're seeing is that western armaments manufacturers are
  having a field day with NATO expansion by mandating that all new
  NATO members purchase only arms produced in NATO countries and
  NATO-affiliated countries like Sweden.


RT: How does the US stationing troops all
  over the Eastern Europe affect stability in the region?

Rick Rozoff: These are so many powder kegs that
  could be ignited by a comparatively minor incident. The fact that
  US troops are stationed in almost every former country outside of
  the Soviet Union itself. At any given time, there are US
  warplanes, troops, warships stationed or docked in Estonia,
  Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania,
  Bulgaria and, in terms of NATO candidates members, Georgia.



  These aren't tremendously large military forces yet, but keep in
  mind that next year the US and NATO are going to place 24
  intermediate range standard missile 3 interceptor missiles in
  Romania, right across the Black Sea from Russia with the prospect
  of three years later of deploying the same amount of standard
  missile 3s in Poland.



  What we're talking about is a very real military presence that
  poses a military threat to non-NATO members in the neighborhood
  and those are in the first instance Belarus and Russia. But also
  it's a symbolic gesture to place US troops in countries bordering
  Ukraine right now and bordering Russia because what it suggests
  is that the US is making a military commitment to protect its
  NATO allies by making even a nominal deployment of military
  contingents to those countries.



  It is definitely upping the ante in terms of brinkmanship.


RT: How likely is it that Ukraine will
  become a member of NATO?

Rick Rozoff: The only thing that stood in the
  way of Ukraine being given a membership action program in 2008 at
  the Bucharest summit of NATO was the fact there were still
  unresolved territorial issues. It was never openly stated that
  Crimea was the fifth of what are called the frozen conflicts in
  former Soviet space in addition to Abkhazia, South Ossetia,
  Nagorno-Karabakh and Transnistria.



  The fact the Russian Black Sea fleet was still based in
  Sevastopol was a stumbling block for the full incorporation of
  Ukraine as a full NATO member. There may be some strategists in
  the West that decide that better that Crimea break away from
  Ukraine than be absorbed into NATO.



  But this doesn't seem to be a likely prospect as the majority of
  the Ukrainian people, particularly in the East and South, have
  demonstrated not only in polls, but in their activities, that
  they have no desire to be in a US-dominated military block that
  is aimed against their neighbor, their friend and their kin,
  Russia.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
