"?Ukrainian crisis: The way toward a solution

It is beginning clearer to everyone that the main responsibility for the crisis that emerged in Ukraine lies with the organizers of the coup d’?tat in Kiev in February.


  The coup has launched the spread of extremism, violence and
  instability. The responsibility also lies with those who
  supported these actions financially and politically.



  But while the crisis is deepening and the Kiev government
  continues to use its army against the Ukrainian people, we must
  look for solutions to end the crisis as soon as possible. That is
  why Russia urges the interim government to cease immediately its
  military operation in the East of Ukraine as the only way to stop
  violence in the whole country.



  A solution to the Ukrainian crisis lies in a direct, genuine,
  equal and honest dialogue between the Kiev government and
  representatives of Ukraine’s South and East. To launch it, both
  parties should make mutual concessions. The indispensable first
  step is for Kiev to end the use of force by the army and suppress
  illegal armed radical groups. Visible guarantees of the
  legitimate rights of all people must be created. As part of this
  peaceful settlement, all political prisoners must be freed, not
  only Pavel Gubarev.



  In the context of creating the conditions for national dialogue,
  Russia has urged the representatives of Southeast Ukraine to
  postpone the referendums planned for May 11.



  Russia is ready to contribute to the peaceful resolution of the
  crisis, based on the principles agreed at the meeting in Geneva
  on April 17, including disarming all illegal armed groups,
  vacating all illegally seized public buildings and public spaces,
  granting an amnesty to all protesters, and a launch of an
  inclusive, transparent and accountable constitutional process. To
  alleviate ill-conceived fears, Russia has removed its troops from
  the Ukrainian border. We have also contributed to freeing
  European military observers in Slavyansk.



  Today, we are studying OSCE’s roadmap on resolving the situation
  in Ukraine. Transparent and democratic presidential elections in
  Ukraine, as well as the subsequent creation of a legitimate
  government, proposed in the roadmap, may be steps in the right
  direction. However elections can’t resolve the crisis per se,
  unless citizens see guarantees of their rights and security.



  The results of the constitutional process must also be visible to
  the Ukrainian people. Otherwise how could Ukrainians vote for
  their president, if constitutional reform to redefine his duties
  has not taken place?



  Russia is not and will never be a party to this conflict. What
  Russia is ready to do is to contribute to the peaceful dialogue
  together with the EU, US and OSCE. But resolving the crisis is in
  the hands of Ukrainians, and the sooner the interim government in
  Kiev understands it, the better.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
