"‘US in panic because of its waning power’

Political and economic power is draining away from the US, while other states make bilateral agreements like the investment deal between Bahrain and Russia, which makes the US extremely worried, Professor of Binary Economics Rodney Shakespeare told RT.


  The US has sent a message of discontent to its ally Bahrain,
  which signed an investment deal with Russia. Washington has said
  that it is concerned with the Gulf state cozying up to Russia,
  which is currently under sanctions due to the Ukrainian crisis.


RT:Washington and Bahrain have long been
  close on political and economic terms. Why would the Gulf state
  cross its Western ally in the first place?

Rodney Shakespeare: Because economic power is
  going away from the West and it is going away from the US.
  Political power is moving away and the US has lost the vestiges,
  if it ever had it at all, of moral authority. So you have a
  situation at the moment where the US is still in the Cold War
  mindset, and thinking it has got political, economic power, moral
  authority... It thinks that it can tell Russia what to do, but
  the times are changing. And is hubristically thinking that it
  could sanction Russia, particularly when everybody knows that
  it’s really about NATO wanting to put missiles into Ukraine and
  that’s what really is going on; the US is making a big mistake.
  All it is going to do is to increase the desire of others to make
  agreements.



  Bahrain is the most insalubrious and vicious regime, but even
  Bahrain can see that American power is waning. Of course, Russia
  would take this opportunity very reasonably to link up with
  Bahrain and effectively give a ‘V’ sign to the
  Americans. This event between two investment institutions in
  Russia and Bahrain is highly significant; it is something that
  shows you that Western and American power is declining, others
  are making new agreements. And frankly, the Americans are going
  to lose in this situation and eventually the dollar will collapse
  as these agreements increase.


RT:All this comes just a day after
  President Putin said Russia could reconsider Western investment
  in its energy sector. This threat now looks more serious, doesn't
  it?

RS: Russia has huge natural resources, it’s a
  vast country, and has a highly advanced population. The bottom
  line in all this: it’s not Standard & Poor’s saying they are
  going to downgrade bonds for Russia. The physical realities are
  that Russia will survive and will be making more agreements and
  behind all this is the ultimate weakness of the dollar. It really
  doesn’t matter what happens now but the thing goes on and will
  end up more and more to the advantage of Russia and other
  countries, which refuse to be bullied by the US.


RT:While it's worth 10 billion dollars,
  that's not exactly a record breaker when it comes to investment.
  So why is Washington getting so worried about it?

RS: This is symbolic. Bahrain is in the Persian
  Gulf and it is where the American fleet by which America supports
  Saudi Arabia and the United Emirates. Those countries, of course,
  ultimately support the expansion of Zionist Israel which is what
  it is about. But as soon as Bahrain, the center of naval power of
  the US, makes an agreement with Russia, America is panicking,
  they are realizing that this is a sign of the times and after all
  the bluster of the Americans, people are just going to go and
  make their own way, and the more Americans try to sanction, the
  more they are going to make agreements like this. So America is
  panicking because they recognize that their power is on the wane
  and this symbolizes that waning power.


RT:With the West constantly stepping up the
  sanctions rhetoric and new players now apparently emerging in the
  game, could we see a re-drawing of the geo-political map
  here?

RS: Yes. American power still amounts to some
  military power, its spying power and others haven’t quite
  organized themselves. The BRIC countries, for example, haven’t
  quite established a new internet repayment system and they
  haven’t quite established their equivalent to the IMF. To some
  extent the whole situation is premature, and then of course other
  countries have to find agreements among themselves, not economic,
  but political. In a very fundamental way, the bullying of the
  West is going to come to an end at some stage; that is going to
  be a very dangerous period because the Americans have got
  military power. But you are starting to see re-alignments… they
  have been going on for quite a time, and the effects of
  sanctioning Russia means that they are not going to have it, they
  are going to go off and make agreements. I tell you, we want
  sanctions on Israel and at one stage we are going to have
  sanctions on the US because that’s what is going to happen if
  America continues as it is, because everybody has got fed up with
  them.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
