"“Of key importance is its provision urging to stop violence, for which ends Kiev must end its punitive operations in Ukraine’s southeastern regions,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday. “It is necessary to unblock settlements, to pull back the regular army and other armed units, including Right Sector forces and mercenaries.”

“They also must release all political prisoners, in line with the roadmap. Apart from that, we demand that the practice of intimidating civil population with the use of force and threats of the use of force be dropped too. We hope that if Kiev realizes such steps, the leaders of self-defense in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions will offer an adequate response,” the ministry stressed.

Moreover, the Russian Foreign Ministry urged to pay special attention to the roadmap’s section dedicated to investigation into all acts of violence. “We are confident that an absolute priority of the current agenda is the organization of unbiased and transparent international backing to the investigation into the May 2 tragedy in Odessa and all instances of armed attacks on civilian population in Ukraine’s Southeast in the recent days,” the ministry noted. “We call on the OSCE to make the Kiev authorities agree to all-round cooperation on those matters.”

“The implementation of the abovementioned provisions of the roadmap would create conditions for a wide national dialogue involving all Ukraine’s political forces and regions and geared to achieve accord and carry out a comprehensive constitutional reform, which is aimed to prevent the country’s further sliding towards catastrophe,” the ministry said.

The address was initiated by State Duma speaker Sergei Naryshkin and the leaders of the four Duma factions.

The lower house of the Russian parliament urged to organize the soonest possible inter-parliamentary consultations to work out approaches promoting de-escalation of tension and restoration of security of Ukrainian citizens and to support the roadmap offered by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). For these ends, the Russian lawmakers proposed to set up an international contact group on Ukraine within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to pool efforts to help put an end to civil confrontation in that country and drive it out of the current political crisis."
