"US soldiers arrive in Lithuania to ‘reassure’ NATO allies amid Ukrainian crisis

American troops have arrived in Lithuania for military drills as tensions rise in the region over Ukraine. Russia has voiced its concern over the troop buildup in Eastern Europe as well as to the deployment of NATO ships in the Black Sea.


  The Lithuanian government welcomed the arrival of 150 troops at
  the Lithuanian Air Force Aviation Base in Siauliai on Saturday,
  reported Reuters. Referring to the escalating tensions in
  Ukraine, President Dalia Grybauskaite said “we know in this
  situation who our real friends are coming to help.

If any of our guests are injured, it would mean an open
  confrontation not with Lithuania but with the United
  States, she added. The group of troops is part of a larger
  contingent of 600 troops that have been deployed throughout
  Eastern Europe to reassure NATO allies. Another company of
  soldiers arrived in Poland on Wednesday and in Latvia on Friday.
  Troops are also expected to arrive in Estonia on Monday.


It's a message to anyone who will listen, and the message is
  that the United States of America will honor its commitments to
  Lithuania,” Richard Longo, Deputy Commanding General of US
  Army Europe, told reporters in Siauliai.
  
  According to the Lithuanian Defense Ministry the soldiers will
  conduct a number of military exercises throughout this year.



  The US Department of Defense announced the drills on Tuesday,
  saying they sent a clear message to Moscow.
  If there's a message to Moscow, it is the same exact message
  that we take our obligations very, very seriously on the
  continent of Europe, Kirby told reporters. Washington has
  accused Russia of meddling in the affairs of neighboring Ukraine,
  which is currently embroiled in a crisis that shows no signs of
  abating.



  Russia denies it has any involvement in the Ukrainian conflict
  and has alleged that the US is “running the show.” In
  addition, Moscow has spoken out against the buildup of allied
  force troops in Eastern Europe, saying their war games will not
  help to normalize the situation in Ukraine.


“Our concern is caused by an increase of US air force and
  military personnel in the Baltic, Poland, and also the Alliance's
  ships in the Black Sea,” the Defense Ministry said in a
  statement, quoting General Valery Gerasimov who spoke with his
  American counterpart on Friday.



  The US has also deployed frigate USS Taylor in the Black Sea,
  which will shortly be joined by French NATO vessel Dupleix.
  France will also send four fighter jets to participate in aerial
  patrols over the Baltics.



  Moscow has voiced its concern over the Ukrainian government
  troops that have been deployed in the East of the country as part
  of an “anti-terror” operation. Russian Defense Minister
  Sergey Shoigu said 11,000 Ukrainian soldiers, 160 tanks, 230
  armored carriers and at least 150 artillery pieces have been
  deployed in the region. At least five people have been killed so
  far during the Ukrainian operation.



  In response to the buildup of troops close to its borders, Shoigu
  said Russia was “forced” to begin military drills on
  Thursday.



  Moscow does not recognize Kiev’s coup-appointed government and
  has decried the use of force against Ukrainian civilians in the
  east of the country."
