"Can't get enough: Obama takes another selfie, now with Malaysian PM

The Obama selfie is back, this time re-emerging during the president’s latest swing through Asia – and just in time to ruffle the feathers of his critics once again.


  Meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak on Sunday, the
  two leaders discussed numerous issues – including human rights
  abuses against the government’s opposition and the stalled
  Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal – but the news making
  immediate waves outside of the country is that Razak convinced
  Obama to join him in another selfie.



  Both leaders are smiling in the photo, which Razak posted to
  Twitter shortly after it was taken. The photo has already been
  favorited by more than 14,100 people and retweeted by nearly
  30,000.



    My selfie with President Obama ! pic.twitter.com/mr94wZtmuA— Mohd Najib Tun Razak (@NajibRazak) April
  27, 2014


  As noted by Time Magazine, the selfie’s emergence is a little
  awkward, since it came just days after Obama denied a similar
  request by a 13-year-old girl after speaking to US troops in
  South Korea. The young girl was holding a sign that read, “Mr.
  President may I have a selfie with you?” but Obama reportedly
  told the young lady that if he took a photo with her he’d have to
  do so with everyone else.



  Regardless, some of the president’s critics just want the whole
  selfie-taking craze to stop completely. After the Obama/Razak
  photo exploded onto the internet, Fox News host Greta Van
  Susteran responded on Twitter asking, “how much longer are
  ‘selfies’ going to be the fad?”


    how much longer are 'selfies' going to be the fad?
  — Greta Van Susteren (@gretawire) April
  27, 2014


  Of course, this isn’t the first time President Obama has indulged
  people – or world leaders, for that matter – when it comes to the
  fine art of selfie-taking. At last year’s memorial service for
  the late South African leader Nelson Mandela, Obama was caught
  taking a selfie with British Prime Minster David Cameron and
  Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt. As RT reported then, some criticized the leaders for their
  decision to take the photo during a funeral service.



  Meanwhile, Obama’s participation in selfies was further called
  into question in early April, when baseball player David Ortiz of
  the Boston Red Sox tweeted a photo taken with the president at a
  White House visit. It was later revealed that the entire stunt
  was organized by Ortiz and smartphone maker Samsung, leading some
  in the administration to wonder if Obama would take any more
  selfies moving forward.


As a rule the White House objects to attempts to use the
  president's likeness for commercial purposes, and we certainly
  object in this case, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney
  said at the time.



  Just two weeks ago, though, Obama appeared in one more selfie,
  this time with Vice President Joe Biden, who also posted the
  photo online."
