"Unspoken alliance between US govt & fascists

?The fact that US government is supporting the Right Sector and Svoboda in Ukraine as they praise Hitler and engage in a campaign of terrorism is shocking to many people in the United States.


  It runs contrary to everything they have been told about the US
  and its history. The narrative commonly taught in US schools is
  one of the US being a ‘homeland of freedom and democracy’ that
  battles against ‘tyrants’ and ‘fascists’, not supports
  them.



  In fact, the relationship between the US government and fascist
  groups has always been an unspoken, unstable, and unacknowledged
  friendship. The relationship does not just take place in far off
  countries like Ukraine, but within the domestic United States.



  Case study: Franzier Glenn Miller



  Franzier Glenn Miller walked into a Jewish Retirement Community
  Center in Overland Park, Kansas on April 13, 2014. He opened
  fire, screaming Heil Hitler! When he was done
  shooting, three people were dead, and one injured. Miller
  justified his violent terrorism with anti-Semitism, carrying
  Hitler's ‘Mein Kampf’ with him. Among his victims was 14-year-old
  boy. Miller is now in custody awaiting trial.



  The quietly acknowledged fact is that Miller's life prior to his
  recent killing spree is dotted with support from the US
  government.



  The tragic day in Kansas was not the first time Miller had
  participated in the killing of innocent people. Miller has been a
  Hitler-worshiping racist for decades, and 35 years ago he was a
  member of the National Socialist Party of America in Greensboro,
  North Carolina. In 1979, he and his allies in the Ku Klux Klan
  assassinated five leaders of the Communist Workers Party. The
  infamous Greensboro Massacre shocked the nation.



  The Communist Workers Party, a small Marxist-Leninist group was
  holding a peaceful rally against the Ku Klux Klan, which was
  becoming active in the area, terrorizing the African-Americans
  who worked in the textile factories. On that tragic day a caravan
  of members of the Ku Klux Klan and various Neo-Nazi groups drove
  up to the anti-racist march. Miller, then a young man, was riding
  in one of the cars. The fascists had been given a map of the
  planned march route by the local police. Among the armed fascists
  were agents from the US Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, and Tobacco.
  The Klansmen and Nazis calmly got out of their cars and removed
  rifles from the trunks. They then opened fire, killing Cesar
  Cauce, Bill Sampson, Michael Nathan, James Waller and Sandi
  Smith.



  The event made headlines around the world. A few of the fascists
  were put on trial for murder, but were found ‘not guilty’,
  despite a video clearly showing the killings. Though members of
  the Communist Workers Party disrupted the Democratic Convention,
  loudly demanding that federal charges be filed against the
  Klansmen, then-President Jimmy Carter ignored their pleas. The
  survivors of the massacre sued the city of Greensboro, the Ku
  Klux Klan, and the American Nazi Party, proving in court that
  government officials assisted in the murder of the five communist
  leaders. They were awarded $350,000.



  Miller brags in his autobiography that he was in the fascist
  caravan in 1979 that drove to the rally and shot the five
  Communists, yet he was never charged with any crime.



  In the aftermath of Miller's killing spree, it has also been
  revealed that he was once part of the US Federal Government's
  Witness Protection Program. They helped Miller to change his name
  legally, and gave him and his family financial support at some
  point during the early 1990s. The reasons for this have not been
  disclosed.



  Radio hosts & prison gangs



  Miller is not the only fascist in the modern US to have been
  revealed to have government support.



  Nazi radio host Hal Turner was famous for his unapologetic
  racism. He sold miniature nooses on his website, celebrating the
  extra-legal executions carried out by the KKK known as
  ‘lynchings’. His radio broadcasts seethed with hate, and
  on one of them he threatened the life of Congresswoman Cynthia
  McKinney.



  It has now been revealed that Turner received millions of dollars
  from the FBI over the course of his career. In 2012, his lawyer
  has even suggested that Turner did not agree with the message,
  and that the entire Nazi radio show was arranged by federal
  officials.


I don't think he was a racist,” the attorney said.
  “He was doing a lot of those things at the behest of the
  FBI.


  In the prisons across the US that 2.5 million people call home,
  one of the largest gangs is the Aryan Brotherhood. In the 1960s,
  when black prisoners were rallying around George Jackson, the
  ‘Soledad Brother’ who led the prison wing of the
  Marxist-Leninist Black Panther Party, the Nazi group sprouted up
  in San Quentin State Penitentiary, eventually spreading across
  the US.



  According to the FBI's own reports, the white Aryan Brotherhood
  members account for only 0.01 percent of the prison population,
  yet its members carry out roughly 20 percent of the murders
  inside US correctional facilities. Prisoners often describe the
  Aryan Brotherhood as doing what the guards can't do for
  themselves in beating, or even executing, inmates who anger
  prison authorities.



  It is clear that many US law enforcement agencies and officials
  have a cooperative relationship with fascists. The fact that
  figures like Miller have been protected, that Hal Turner has been
  given millions of dollars, that the Greensboro massacre was
  aided, and the Aryan Brotherhood is strong inside the prison
  system all point to this unacknowledged reality.



  The historical roots of the alliance



  The relationship between the US government and fascist
  organizations has deep historical roots.



  The Ku Klux Klan originated as a state-sponsored organization in
  former slave-holding states. The dispossessed slave holders used
  the Klan to terrorize freed slaves and hold back efforts toward
  agrarian reform and social advancement by African Americans.



  The Klan sprung up half a century before the Nazis of Germany or
  the Fascisti of Italy, but they had all the attributes of later
  fascist movements. They were obsessively racist. They glorified
  the past, calling themselves Knights and using medieval imagery.
  They wore elaborate costumes and engaged in secret rituals. They
  attempted to present themselves as economic populists, while
  being funded by wealthy capitalists. Most of all, they were
  committed to violence and terrorism as a political tactic to
  uphold the existing social order against progressive forces.



  It is safe to call the Klan ‘the original fascists’, as
  they were a prototype, replicated for decades after in many
  countries around the world.



  The Ku Klux Klan was revived in 1915 after a Hollywood movie
  promoting them called ‘The Birth of a Nation’ was shown
  all across the US. The creator of the film was Thomas Dixon, a
  close friend of US President Woodrow Wilson.



  US Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black was a member of the Ku Klux
  Klan, and it is speculated that numerous other US officials were
  also.



  The Ku Klux Klan was not the only fascist organization to be
  embraced by the US government. The American Legion, an
  organization of US military veterans formed after the First World
  War, was openly supportive of fascism. The organization invited
  Italian fascist dictator Benito Mussolini to its 1930 convention
  as an honored guest. Commander of the American Legion Alvin
  Owsley proclaimed, Do not forget that the Fascisti are to Italy
  what the American Legion is to the United States!



  Marine Corps General Smedley Butler revealed that the American
  Legion was actually plotting a coup d’?tat against US President
  Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Butler testified before the House of
  Representatives about the business plot to remove
  Roosevelt and establish a fascist dictatorship in the United
  States, and they confirmed his claims were very credible.



  Henry Ford, one of the most prominent industrial capitalists in
  the United States, openly praised Adolf Hitler and widely
  distributed Nazi propaganda. Father Charles E. Coughlin, the
  ‘radio priest’, praised Hitler on the airwaves all
  across the United States, and received a great amount of funding
  as preached hatred for Jews and called for violence against
  Communists.



  Fascists in the United States, like fascists everywhere, are the
  armed troops of Wall Street. When workers went on strike in the
  1930s demanding better wages, the Ku Klux Klan attacked the
  Congress of Industrial Organization and did all they could to
  prevent industrial unions from growing. When African-Americans
  demanded civil rights and equality, the Ku Klux Klan, the White
  Citizens Council, and other fascist groups tortured, and murdered
  them. When the working people of Italy occupied their factories
  and demanded economic justice, the Blackshirts rolled into power
  and outlawed their unions. As working people in Germany rallied
  around the Communist Party and the Red Front Fighters League,
  Adolph Hitler took power and created a repressive state to keep
  the rule of Krupps and Thyssens intact.



  As the people become more and more enraged at the Wall Street
  monopolists, democracy is abolished in order to preserve their
  power against popular sentiments. Fascism has always been about
  preserving capitalism and holding back those who fight for
  equality and social progress.



  Why Ukraine matters to Americans



  Many people in the United States may be unconcerned about events
  in Ukraine. They may think that the ruthless slaughter of
  innocent people there is unrelated to events within the US
  itself.



  They could not be more wrong.



  The ugly episode of terror and violence in Ukraine began when the
  government refused to join the IMF and the EU, and instead sought
  to preserve some element of economic independence. The response
  to this was the unleashing of a campaign of fascist terror that
  eventually overturned the elected government.



  As the people of eastern and southern Ukraine rebel against the
  Wall Street/IMF/EU regime imposed on them, the response has been
  a horrific campaign of violence and terror, carried out by
  costume wearing, Hitler worshiping, racist thugs.



  There is nothing exclusively Ukrainian about these events. All
  across the world, as the people fight against the cuts, and
  demand that their economic needs take priority over Wall Street
  profits, fascism emerges. Golden Dawn, the Neo-Nazi terror
  organization, has been unleashed on the people of Greece in
  response to their uprisings against austerity. As British workers
  and students rise up, the British National Party and the English
  Defense League are growing.



  As workers in the US begin to demand justice as they did in the
  Wisconsin State Capitol Building, in Zuccotti Park, and on the
  streets of Oakland, nothing stops the bankers from unleashing
  fascist terror here as they have done elsewhere. These forces
  will stop at nothing to preserve their power.



  If it can be done to the working people of Ukraine, of Greece and
  of Britain, it can be done to working people here in the US.



  When the Spanish Republic was attacked by fascists in 1936,
  people all over the world came to their aid. When workers in
  London fought fascist Oswald Mosley at the Battle of Cable
  Street, and workers in New York City shut down the Madison Square
  Garden rally of the German-American Bund, their rallying cry was
  the same: You Shall Not Pass! (No Passaran!)



  The attitude of working people in the United States to the
  horrific scenes like have taken place in Odessa must be the same.
  Fascism serves Wall Street, and hurts all working people. It must
  be opposed.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
