"Kiev did nothing to fulfill Geneva agreements – Russia’s UN envoy

Kiev did not take any steps towards fulfilling the Geneva agreements set during four-party talks between Russia, Ukraine, the EU, and the US on April 17, Russia’s envoy to the UN Vitaly Churkin said, adding that the West did not help either.

“Nothing has been done on behalf of Kiev’s authorities to
  implement the Geneva document. Our Western colleagues, primarily
  the Americans – who now have an unprecedented influence over Kiev
  – could not or did not want to convince Kiev to fulfill its
  obligations under the Geneva agreement,” Churkin said during
  the UN Security Council meeting in New York on Tuesday.



  Addressing the meeting, US Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power
  accused Russia of stirring up trouble in eastern Ukraine and
  undermining the government in Kiev.



  “Russia continues to fund, to coordinate, and to fuel the
  heavily-armed separatist movement, she said.



  Churkin denied the claims and added that if the situation in
  Ukraine deteriorates, the West should comprehend its level of
  responsibility in the matter.



  On April 17, Russia, the US, the EU, and Ukraine adopted a joint document on the de-escalation
  of the Ukraine crisis, calling for all illegal armed groups to
  lay down arms and for a wide amnesty for detained protesters.



  Churkin stated that none of the radical groups are laying down
  arms, including the far-right group Right Sector, which is
  “marching under the Nazi flags.”

“On the contrary, these groups have been granted legal
  status, and [have been] used to form the paramilitary battalions
  'Dnepr,' 'Slobozhanschina,' and ‘Donbass,'” he said.



  According to Churkin, Kiev’s Independence Square is still being
  occupied, even though that is in violation of one of the items in
  the Geneva agreements. “Nobody is vacating anything in Kiev,
  while Washington is complacently claiming that the buildings are
  being ‘legally rented out,’” he stated.



  The Russian envoy to the UN also highlighted that repressions
  against those disagreeing with Kiev’s coup-imposed authorities
  are continuing, adding that there has been no amnesty for
  arrested protesters.



  Churkin stated that the current Ukrainian regime, supported by
  the West, is pushing the country towards a catastrophe.



  He also criticized other states which have claimed that Russia is
  not doing its part to influence protesters in southeastern
  Ukraine. “How can you convince the militias in the east of
  the country to disarm or leave the buildings if they are
  surrounded, like in Slavyansk, by Ukrainian armed forces and the
  so-called ‘National Guard’ units, entirely consisting of Right
  Sector militias?” he said.



  In addition, Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday claimed
  the US has been behind the Ukrainian crisis from the
  beginning, but was initially flying low. He added that if
  sanctions continue, Russia will have to reconsider who has access
  to key sectors of its economy.


“I think what is happening now shows us who really was
  mastering the process from the beginning. But in the beginning,
  the United States preferred to remain in the shadow,” Putin
  said, as quoted by RIA Novosti."
