"Russia disappointed over additional EU sanctions

Moscow expressed disappointment over the EU’s newly imposed sanctions against Russia, stressing that it is not worthy of the European Union.

“Instead of trying to solve the situation through
  de-escalation, disarmament of the Right Sector, improvement of
  dialogue between Kiev’s authorities and Ukrainian regions, EU
  colleagues are demonstrating a one-sided and one-dimensional
  policy, not worthy of the European Union,” Itar-Tass quoted
  Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov as saying.



  Further sanctions were introduced on Monday following the results
  of referendums that have been announced in Donetsk and Lugansk
  Regions, showing the majority of voters support self-rule, amid
  an intensified military operation by Kiev which resulted in
  several deaths.



  EU foreign ministers have expanded their sanctions over Russia's
  actions in Ukraine, adding two Crimean companies and 13 people to
  the bloc's blacklist, EU diplomats stated.



  The sanctions will come into effect Tuesday. Earlier, 48 Russians
  and Ukrainians were targeted by EU asset freezes and visa bans
  over Crimea joining Russia in March.



  Among the individuals banned entry to the EU are the chief
  prosecutor of Crimea and Internet sensation Natalia Poklonskaya and her colleague from Sevastopol, Igor
  Shevchenko. Also the list includes influential individuals such
  as the deputy head of the presidential administration, Vyacheslav
  Volodin, the Commander of airborne troops Vladimir Shamanov,
  State Duma deputy Vladimir Pligin, Crimean administration chiefs
  and six pro-autonomy activists in eastern Ukraine, reported
  Itar-Tass.



  Following the referendum results, Donetsk People's Republic has
  proclaimed itself a sovereign state and has asked Moscow to
  consider its accession into Russia, the Republic’s council said.



  Russia is taking its time before reacting to Donetsk
  People's Republic’s plea while calling for dialogue between Kiev
  and the eastern regions."
