"WASHINGTON, May 13 (RIA Novosti), Lyudmila Chernova – There are definitive signs that the CIA are supporting the coup-appointed regime in Kiev, which means the US decided to use a policy of terror toward Ukraine, co-director of the International Action Center and anti-war social justice activist in the US, told RIA Novosti Tuesday.

“You don’t send the Director of the CIA in Ukraine for tea or coffee. It shows the US is determined to use terror. The CIA supports military dictatorships, feudal monarchies around the world and has been responsible for so many coup d'?tats, from Iran to Congo, Chili, Bolivia, Venezuel , and Vietnam,” Sara Flounders stated, referring to an interview of John Brennan, the head of the CIA, with Fusion in which he admitted he went to Kiev in mid-April to talk to Ukrainian “partners and friends.”

Visits by US top political actors to Ukraine show the depth of Washington support for the interim Ukraine regime, the expert said.

“They’re using secret measures, mercenaries, intelligence operatives. It is the way by which they are going to attempt to support  the coup regime in Kiev,” Flounders said.

It’s no surprise that Washington declared illegal results of popular referendums in Ukraine’s eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, she said, adding that the US position is very weak.

“They [the US and EU] immediately recognized the fascists that overthrew the elected government. And that grouping can rely neither on its own military nor on the large section of the population,” Flounders said.

The longtime peace activist emphasized that the outcome of the vote clearly demonstrates that the people in Eastern Ukraine are determined to have a say in their own future.  The decision highlights an effort not to allow the right wing fascists grouping who is in a pay of outside powers to decide their future.

“This grouping in Kiev must step down, must give up their arms and the buildings and ministries they have seized. That’s the only solution that would lead to a peaceful resolution,” the expert insisted.

“They are the ones who have to give up the positions that they hold illegally. Around the world it is understood that the aggression was on their part,” she concluded.

On Sunday, popular referendums in Donetsk and Luhansk voted to separate from Kiev.  The decision was immediately declared illegal by the US and EU.

The Kremlin said in a statement Monday it respected the will of the people in Ukraine’s southeast and urged the regime in Kiev to do the same. The Kremlin said it condemned “the use of force including military hardware against peaceful citizens which led to deaths” during the referendums."
