"China summons US envoy over cyber-spying charges, vows retaliation

?China has dismissed all US accusations of industrial cyber-espionage against five of its military officials and published proof that Washington is actually stealing data from China. Beijing also summoned the US ambassador for an explanation.


  Beijing reacted to Washington’s recent round of industrial
  espionage accusations by publishing its
  latest data on US cyber-attacks against China.



  China’s National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical
  Team Coordination Center of China (NCNERTTCC) reported that
  during just two months, from March 19 to May 18, the US directly
  controlled 1.18 million host computers in China using 2,077
  Trojan horse networks or botnet servers.



  According to the NCNERTTCC, over the last two months 135 host
  computers stationed in the US conducted 14,000 phishing
  operations against Chinese websites using for the attacks 563
  phishing pages. The other hacking activities through the same
  period of time included 57,000 backdoor attacks, performed from
  2,016 IP addresses in the US through backdoors implanted on 1,754
  Chinese websites.



  The Chinese Foreign Ministry summoned the American ambassador to
  China for an explanation, urging him to drop all charges against
  China’s military officers. The meeting between Chinese Assistant
  Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang and US Ambassador Max Baucus took
  place on Monday night, reported Xinhua.



  Depending on further developments, China “will take further
  action on the so-called charges by the United States,” Zheng
  told Baucus.


“The Chinese government and military and its associated
  personnel have never conducted or participated in the theft of
  trade secrets over the internet,” Zheng reportedly told
  Baucus as quoted by Xinhua.



  America’s attitude to internet security is “overbearing and
  hypocritical,” Zheng told Baucus, urging the US to finally
  give a clear explanation on multiple reports that America’s
  National Security Agency is spying after Chinese government,
  businesses, universities and individuals.



  On the other side of the Pacific, China's Ambassador to the US
  Cui Tiankai made solemn representations to the US
  State Department, China News Service reported on Tuesday.


“The accusations that the United States have made against
  these Chinese officials are purely fictitious and extremely
  absurd, Chinese ambassador to the US is quoted as saying.



  Geng Yansheng, spokesman for China’s Ministry of National
  Defense, accused Washington of hypocrisy and damaging bilateral
  military ties.


“From 'WikiLeaks' to the 'Snowden' affairs, the hypocrisy and
  double standards of the US side on the issue of internet security
  has been clear for a long time,” said the spokesman as cited
  by the Wall Street Journal.



  Beijing insists that while the US accused China of industrial
  cyber-spying on multiple occasions, America itself is waging
  unprecedented cyber warfare against China, infiltrating all kinds
  of the country’s networks - government and business alike - also
  targeting both civilians and officials through mobile phones.



  After the revelations of former NSA contractor Edward Snowden the
  US has been criticized by most of the world powers, as it turned
  out that America is spying after literally every state and every
  person found necessary.



  For example back in 2012 Washington accused Chinese telecom giants, including the
  world’s second-largest global supplier of telecommunications
  equipment, Huawei, of posing a threat to America’s national
  security through ‘tapping’ their routers, switches and other
  telecoms equipment.



  Two years later it turned out that the US was not only spying on Huawei, but America’s NSA has been
  actually embedding surveillance tools within computer
  hardware exported from the US.



  On Monday, the US personalized accusations of industrial
  cyber-espionage against China, charging five military officials
  with hacking attacks against American companies.



  Beijing dismissed all the accusations as groundless and based on
  fabricated facts, blaming Washington of imperiling China-US
  “cooperation and mutual trust” in a released statement.


“China is steadfast in upholding cyber-security,” the
  statement maintains. “The Chinese government, the Chinese
  military and their relevant personnel have never engaged or
  participated in cyber-theft of trade secrets. The US accusation
  against Chinese personnel is purely ungrounded and absurd,”
  the document said.



  US attorney General Eric Holder leveled charges against China of
  stealing confidential data and business secrets in order to give
  Chinese companies competitive advantage over American
  corporations in the nuclear and solar technology sectors.



  According to the Justice Department, the grand jury’s indictment
  must become a “wake-up call” for the American nation to realize
  the scale of cyber intrusions.



  The companies that allegedly suffered from espionage are such
  industrial giants as Alcoa World Alumina, Allegheny Technologies,
  SolarWorld, US Steel Corporation, the United Steelworkers Union
  and Westinghouse Electric."
