"Human chains of E. Ukrainian residents block Kiev troops, APCs near Slavyansk (VIDEO)

Amid Kiev’s info war branding Slavyansk civilians “hostages of the terrorists,” the residents of Slavyansk speak out against the military campaign in eastern Ukraine and go out to block troops and APCs, as self-defense vows to “stand to the last.”


  Expecting a fresh wave of assaults from armed forces loyal to
  Kiev to start at any moment, the defiant anti-government
  stronghold of Slavyansk has become “eerily quiet,” with
  the streets, dotted with checkpoints, practically devoid of
  passersby. These are the impressions of RT’s Paula Slier
  reporting on the spot.



    Residents being told to get inside immediately #Slavyanskpic.twitter.com/aDQfLsiGSB
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 2, 2014


    armored vehicles in city can't proceed properly bc of smoke
    coming from fires set ablaze - men defending the city -
    otherwise its empty
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 2, 2014


  Slier, who witnessed the scenes in the city amid Friday’s ongoing
  military offensive on its outskirts, reported
  that some locals had gathered in central Slavyansk, determined to
  “defend the city,” while others were stationed on roads
  and bridges leading into Slavyansk to prevent military hardware
  from entering the city. All this was going on while the Ukrainian
  Interior Ministry kept urging people to stay at home so as not to
  become “shields for terrorists.”


  In the nearby village of Andreevka, at least 15 armored vehicles
  were blocked by the locals at a time when other units loyal to
  Kiev were storming the outermost self-defense checkpoints. A
  YouTube video from Yasnogorka showed a man, who was reportedly
  run over by an APC while fruitlessly trying to block its way.



    15 APCs blocked by locals in village of Andreevka near #Slavyansk
    - LIVE UPDATES http://t.co/VEWkRrxJ8epic.twitter.com/PUzQgwAfbv
    — RT (@RT_com) May 2,
    2014


  For those living in Slavyansk, Friday morning began with the
  sound of a warning siren and fears of army assaults and shelling
  of the city. Several Ukrainian army helicopters, supporting
  ground troops with missile fire, were reportedly shot down near Slavyansk by armed
  self-defense units. Footage showed an injured helicopter pilot
  who survived crashing, but was “left to die” by the
  retreating Ukrainian troops, according to Slavyansk activists.
  The man was then helped by his own “adversaries” as they brought
  him to the city for medical treatment.



  RT’s stringer Graham Phillips reported hectic scenes from the
  streets of Slavyansk as local self-defense rushed to prepare for
  an anticipated assault, setting up and reinforcing barricades and
  taking positions. Plenty of conflicting reports arose concerning
  the time of possible attacks, allegedly being prepared not only
  by the Ukrainian armed forces and “National Guard,” but also by
  Right Sector units relocated to the Donetsk Region from
  Dnepropetrovsk.



    Another torched barricade, trees felled over the road as
    entering #Sloviansk
    by road becomes near impossible. pic.twitter.com/XTiPUNgRt3
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) May
    2, 2014


    Locomotive is purposefully stationed, blocking Ukraine army
    access to the city at one,south western entry. #Slovianskpic.twitter.com/JGOQcsbhv5
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) May
    2, 2014


  Many of the people gathering in central Slavyansk told Phillips
  that they are frightened for their lives and do not want any
  Ukrainian military sent by the “Kiev junta” in their
  city.



  One woman interviewed
  by Phillips appealed to Russia and personally to President
  Vladimir Putin for help, saying the people are getting desperate.



    Highly-charged scenes in central #Sloviansk,
    people say 'we are frightened for our lives'. pic.twitter.com/QvxwFsZkci
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) May
    2, 2014


  The others had a message
  for US President Barack Obama, whom they blame for the chaotic
  developments in Ukraine.


“Obama is meddling with war everywhere. America long ago
  stopped being a ‘guarantor of peace’ in the world. They call
  themselves peacekeepers, but show me just one country where the
  US has brought peace and prosperity. Syria, Libya, Egypt,
  revolutions are being organized everywhere. The American
  presidents have for a long time been bringing only death,” a
  woman told Phillips on camera in an emotional statement.



    Poor lady in car with us crying - says cant bekieve whats
    happening #Slaviansk
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 2, 2014


  The protesters frequently called on world leaders to come to
  Slavyansk and see for themselves what sort of
  “terrorists” or “separatists” they are.


#Slavyansk
    locals rise up against #Kiev
    attack. Not a single Russian insurgent on sight. pic.twitter.com/WJlvPg56ZZ via
    @Pauljaine
    — Èãîðü Ëåîíòüåâ (@leontev84) May
    2, 2014


  The others, standing on the barricades with the city’s
  self-defense, said they are determined to fight for Slavyansk to
  the last.


“What has come down on us, this is not life. I am prepared
  that I may be killed, but I am sure that together we will defend
  our native city to the last,” an activist told RIA Novosti.



    It looks like a full-blown war zone just outside of #Slavyansk,
    #Ukraine
    via @NOVORUSSIA2014.
    
    #Ñëàâÿíñêpic.twitter.com/B2j8J5nSRP
    — Nina Byzantina (@NinaByzantina) 
    May 2, 2014

“We want neither nationalists, nor oligarchs here. All those
  bandits and thieves – let them bypass our region… My grandfather
  fought his way to Berlin, and I cannot betray him, betray what he
  was fighting for,” another activist said."
