"Dark side of Ukraine’s election: Darth Vader runs for mayor in Kiev, Odessa

Sith Lord Darth Vader, whose Ukraine presidency bid was earlier rejected, has been registered as a candidate for mayoral elections in the capital Kiev and the port city of Odessa, with a plan to run for the top seat in “all key cities” in the country.


  The Odessa election commission voted Thursday to register 'Darth
  Nikolayevich Vader' for the mayoral election on May 25, the same
  day that Ukraine is due to elect a new president.



  The Star Wars villain will fight for the post with 18 other
  contenders – primarily earthly Ukrainian politicians and
  businessmen.



  “The registration is completed. The first step towards the
  victory is made. Power is itself coming into my hands and I’m not
  ready to resist,” said Vader, according to the website for
  the Internet party of Ukraine, which nominated him as a
  candidate.



  The former Jedi Knight and deputy leader of the party has also
  registered to take part in the Kiev mayoral vote. Vader has twice
  won the party's primaries, the group said.



  Apparently, an unsuccessful attempt to join Ukraine’s
  presidential race has not discouraged Lord Vader. Earlier this
  year, he submitted documents to the Central Election
  Commission, but was refused registration, while two courts in
  Kiev threw out his suits against the decision.



  “They stole my victory at the presidential elections, but
  failed to steal my will for the victory. I assure all my
  supporters – my decisiveness has never been stronger than it is
  now,” Vader said. “That’s why I made a decision to run
  for mayor, mayors of all key cities in Ukraine. Soon I will be in
  your city, too.”



  Vader’s “cabinet maker” is already working on a proper imperial
  seat, or rather a throne, that Lord Vader is planning to place in
  his office if he wins.



  Vader is not a newbie to Ukrainian politics. During the 2012
  parliamentary election, he scored three percent of votes,
  according to his party. Unfortunately, the votes were never
  registered because supporters each had to add Vader’s name to the
  ballots, which rendered them void under Ukrainian law."
