"EU policy to blame for Ukraine crisis - Ex-Chancellor Schroeder

Germany’s former Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has blamed European Union policy for the current situation in Ukraine and urged the West to stop focusing on new sanctions against Russia.


  In Schroeder’s opinion, the EU’s fundamental mistake - that
  subsequently led to the ongoing crisis in Ukraine – was its
  association policy, he said in an interview with German newspaper
  Welt am Sonntag published Sunday.



  Brussels “ignored” Ukraine’s deep cultural division between
  traditionally pro-European western regions and Russia-leaning
  regions in the east, the former chancellor said.



  Kiev, however, had to pick either an association with the EU or a
  Customs Union with Russia, Schroeder said. He suggested that it
  could have been more reasonable if the former Soviet republic was
  offered an alternative when it could do both.



  Asked whether it was the corrupt system and government in Ukraine
  that led to the unrest, Schroeder agreed that that was also true,
  but, at the same time, Yanukovich came to office through a free
  election.



  Initially, protests in Ukraine began in November, after President
  Viktor Yanukovich put on hold the signing of the association
  agreement with the EU, because, as he explained, at that moment
  it would be against national interests.



  The decision sparked months of fierce protests on Kiev’s Maidan
  square which ended with a February coup and the ouster of
  Yanukovich. Since then, the epicenter of bloody unrest has moved
  to eastern regions where many oppose to the new Kiev government,
  the republic of Crimea decided to rejoin Russia.



  Schroeder admitted that the situation with Crimea joining Russia
  might be controversial in terms of international law, but that
  has already happened after the republic decided to be part of
  Russia via a referendum.



  The interview comes amid diplomatic confrontation between Russia
  and the West over the situation in Ukraine, with western
  countries accusing Moscow of the developments and punishing it
  with sanctions.



  Last week, French President Francois Hollande and German
  Chancellor Angela Merkel threatened Russia with new sanctions if
  Ukrainian May 25 presidential election does not go ahead as
  planned.



  The former German Chancellor believes, however, that sanctions
  and isolation would bring no result. A dialogue and respect of
  mutual interests could pave the way to a solution, he said,
  adding that trying to understand the opponent’s arguments would
  also be helpful.



  “One should be speaking less about sanctions right now but
  instead about Russia's security interests,” Schroeder
  stated, adding that Ukraine’s membership of NATO would not be
  acceptable for Moscow. “I keep hearing that the West 'has to
  isolate Russia and Putin'.”



  Schroeder’s advocacy of Kremlin’s policies and his closeness with
  President Vladimir Putin have been stirring up sharp criticism
  and even irritation in the West amid tensions over Ukraine.



  In April, the former chancellor came under fire from the media as
  photos were published of him hugging Putin in St Petersburg where
  he reportedly was celebrating his 70th birthday.



  Schroeder’s spokesperson confirmed on April 29 that he was in the
  Russian northern capital for a shareholders' meeting of Nord
  Stream AG, the Russian-German pipeline joint venture that he
  chairs. However, back then spokesman Albrecht Funk did not say
  why the former Chancellor met with Putin.



  Official Berlin rushed to distance itself from Schroeder saying
  that Schroeder does not represent the German government.



  “It should be clear to everyone that Mr. Schroeder left
  active politics some time ago,” a senior German government
  official said when asked about the pictures, Reuters wrote.



  In response to attacks in the media the ex-Chancellor pointed out
  that Putin “is not a persona non grata.” Speaking about
  the warm hug with Putin, Schroeder said he and the Russian
  president have been greeting each other that way since they’ve
  known each other – for more than 14 years – and he was not going
  to change that even in difficult times.



  “I was really pleased he was able to come, because I knew
  there would be a chance to talk,” he told Welt am Sonntag.
  He said they talked about Ukraine. “And as far as the
  situation with theOSCE observersgoes, it led to a successful
  result. I used the chance to ask President Putin to help free the
  hostages.”"
