"?CIA director admits he visited Kiev, refuses to call Russia enemy

John Brennan, the head of the CIA, said in an interview he did go to Kiev “a few weeks ago” to talk to Ukrainian “partners and friends.” He also declined to call Russia an enemy dubbing it instead “a major power”.


  While talking to Fusion’s Jorge Ramos, Brennan admitted to the
  host’s question his visit to Ukraine’s capital in mid-April.


“I was out there to interact with our Ukrainian partners and
  friends. I had the opportunity to walk through the streets of
  Kiev and also go to Maidan Square and see the memorials to those
  Ukrainians trying to find liberty and freedom for their
  people,” he said.



  Following the visit, deposed Ukrainian president Victor
  Yanukovich accused Brennan of de facto sanctioning a crackdown on pro-Russian activists in
  the country’s south-east.



  Until now the CIA had not disclosed if and why Brennan had been
  to Kiev but White House spokesman Jay Carney confirmed that the
  CIA director went in Kiev as part of his trip to Europe and met
  with high-ranked Ukrainian officials.



  In the interview with Fusion, the Brennan said that the situation
  in Ukraine is “something that needs to be addressed” and
  insisted that the US wants “the Ukrainian people to have
  their ability to define their future.”

“We here at the CIA can work with our partners in Ukraine and
  other areas to give them the information, the capabilities that
  they need in order to bring security and stability back to their
  country,” said Brennan.



  The CIA chief is not the only American top official to go to
  Kiev. US Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs
  Victoria Nuland visited the capital twice earlier this year, along
  with several politicians from EU countries. This sparked anger in
  Russia who accused the West of meddling in Ukraine’s internal
  affairs.



  Moscow-Washington relations soured by the Ukrainian crisis, the
  CIA director still refused to call Russia an enemy, saying
  instead it was “a major power.”

“It’s a country with tremendous influence, especially in this
  part of the world,” he said.



  Brennan did not comment on the restive situation in Ukraine’s
  southeast, where scores of people have reportedly died in clashes
  between anti-Kiev and government forces. Donetsk and Lugansk
  regions held autonomy referendums Sunday – despite Russia’s calls
  to postpone the vote until after the presidential election set
  for May 25 and repeated statements from western leaders the
  referendum result will never be recognized."
