"‘New Afghan govt will work both with Taliban and what the US left in place’

Even though both sides are terribly corrupt, there is probably going to be more general respect from the Afghan population for the Taliban, who have been fighting for Afghanistan for several decades, retired US Air Force officer Karen Kwiatkowski told RT.

RT:We've seen a surge in attacks, including
  one on the Kabul International Airport, as the Taliban has
  declared its annual summer offensive. How do you think
  Afghanistan will protect itself from the rising insurgency after
  NATO forces a pullout?

Karen Kwiatkowski: It is going to be difficult
  for them even though the national forces are somewhat strong and
  practiced. I think what you are going to see is a pretty rapid
  deceleration and initial acceleration of violence within a rapid
  deceleration when the strengths of the two parties are
  determined. The people themselves are tired of war, so you are
  going to see compromise. You are going to see some government
  that works with both parties, the Taliban, as well as what the US
  has left in place.


RT:How likely is it that the Taliban will
  seize power after the pullout?

KK: I can’t read into the future, but I think
  it’s pretty likely. The will to lead that country is not with the
  people the Americans put in place. The will to lead Afghanistan,
  to own it, is with people who have been fighting for that country
  for multiple decades and unfortunately, from the Western
  perspective, that’s the Taliban. I think they are tougher and a
  little bit more dedicated. Even though both sides are terribly
  corrupt - financially corrupt and corrupt in many ways - there is
  probably going to be more general respect from the population for
  the Taliban. Some of that will be fear, but others of it will be
  respect.


RT:It's been over 12 years since the US-led
  invasion which was aimed at weakening the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.
  Has the war in any way succeeded?

KK: From an American prospective I can’t see how
  it succeeded at all. It has cost us terrible amount of money, it
  has created an environment of a huge poppy production and export
  which affects our country as a consumer nation pretty directly in
  a negative way. We have ruined the relationship that we had with
  the Taliban in the 2000s and late 1990s. So our trade
  relationship potentially with Afghanistan once the Taliban takes
  over is going to have to be re-established. So we’ve gone
  backward from the American perspective, from the Western
  perspective. From an Afghan perspective I don’t know how they
  cannot feel like victims of world events and they must be
  extremely tired of this.


RT:The US has pledged $4 billion to support
  Afghan forces after the pullout. What do you think US taxpayers
  will think of this, given that more than 100 billion dollars has
  already been spent since 2001?

KK: That is putting good money after bad of
  course. One thing, the way that we will give that money to
  Afghanistan will not worry the Americans as much as it might. We
  will give them broken, used, defective equipment, we will leave
  materials there and count that as a gift compared to the billions
  that we promised them. Most of the rest of it if it is given to
  the government will go into banks around the world, where it goes
  now when we give it to the government.



  Most of the money given to the Afghan government today is not
  spent on Afghanistan, it is packed and secured around the world.
  Americans are not pleased and they are tired of it, aren’t
  interested in it. We are suffering ourselves economically, so it
  will not be popular. But what will happen is that Afghans will
  not get the full value of that billion in any case. It will be
  old equipment, it will be past gifts and accounting tricks. They
  really cannot count on it.


RT:Votes are still being counted from
  Afghanistan's presidential election. Do you believe any of the
  candidates are capable of restoring security in the country?

KK: There are two sides and the Taliban did not
  run any candidates, it was not allowed to. This election is
  really deck chairs on the Titanic the way I see it. I am glad
  that they have been able to run an official election, this is a
  good practice, this is nice but it is not the solution to solving
  Afghanistan’s governing problems. They are going to have to come
  together, force will be used and hopefully it will be
  short-lived. We wish them the best. That is all I can see for the
  future of Afghanistan.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
