"Russian defense industry should obey ‘made in Russia’ principle – Putin

No branch in Russia’s defense industry should depend on foreign producers President Vladimir Putin said, saying everything the industry needs must be made at home.

We must ensure that everything our defense industry needs is
  produced on our territory – for us not to be dependent on anyone,
  in any way concerning the supply of our army and navy with new
  weapons, Putin said at a meeting at his Bocharov Ruchey
  residence in Sochi.


“I am sure this would benefit our industry,” he added.



  The Russian leader admitted the measure would lead to extra
  costs, but it was the correct course of action to choose.


Small additional funds will be needed, Putin said.
  But the process is right.”


  It would also mean adjusting the work of domestic research
  centers in accordance with the new objectives.


“We need to look at how work with research centers has been
  organized, and to work more closely with the Academy of
  Sciences,” Putin said.



  A new round of negotiations dedicated to the defense procurement
  program will be taking place in the next three days, according to
  the president. These series of talks come six months after
  similar meetings.


We have agreed on the unconditional implementation of
  defense procurement and efficient use of funds allocated for
  this, the president said. A total of 20 trillion rubles are
  allocated for these purposes and 3 trillion rubles for
  re-equipping defense industry complex companies, he said.



  Last month the government was ordered to analyze the situation
  and calculate additional necessary resources related to the
  issue, and estimate the terms in which it can be implemented.



  In his speech on April 28, Putin also voiced plans “to conduct
  import substitution,” a process he estimated would take between
  1.5 and 2.5 years, depending on the type of products.



  Back then Putin particularly referred to Ukraine, saying that
  Russia switching to domestic products would “likely lead to
  disaster” because Moscow is the only consumer the Ukrainian
  defense industry has.



  For example, Ukraine was producing engines for most Russian
  military helicopters, including the Mi-24, the R-27 medium-range
  air-to-air missiles for the Russian air force and many critical
  components, like drogue parachutes and hydraulics for fighter
  jets. Ukraine also makes the gears used in many Russian ships and
  transport planes at the Antonov factory in Kiev. Many weapons the
  Russian military uses incorporate Ukrainian parts."
