"‘Ukraine crisis fueled by Obama’s failure to grasp US interests’

A failure to properly grasp US interests in Ukraine has made Obama susceptible to hawks seeking confrontation with Russia despite the greater geopolitical goals that Moscow and Washington share, former CIA and State Dept. employee Larry Johnson told RT.


  Johnson belongs to a group of former US intelligence agents who
  are attempting to get Obama to change course and defuse the
  ongoing crisis in Ukraine. He argues that Obama has been misled
  by Secretary of State John Kerry and others on Capitol Hill who
  have painted a one-sided picture of recent events in the
  former-Soviet state that are often filtered through a prism of
  Cold War rhetoric.



  Via their petition, the former spooks hope to not only
  de-escalate the crisis in Ukraine, but set the United States on a
  foreign policy course that will serve to protect common security
  interests served by the US, Russia, and the whole global
  community. Due to the current political climate in Washington,
  however, he believes their appeal will likely fall on deaf ears.


RT:Have you had any response from the US
  president's office yet?

Larry Johnson: Nothing, and I think they’re
  going to ignore us because this has a momentum of its own in the
  United States as far as the policy that the Obama administration
  is trying to pursue. I guess I’ll call it the agitators for
  conflict that are rife right now within the United States,
  unfortunately.


RT:You say Obama should listen to people
  other than the likes of John Kerry. Why is this so
  important?

LJ: I’m a veteran of the Cold War; I was there
  throughout at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) working in
  Central America back when we saw the Soviet Union at the time as
  trying to subvert democracy and insert its influence there. As we
  recall, the United States fought back very significantly there in
  trying to prevent that, so I don’t come at this as someone who’s
  na?ve or uninformed.



  But what I see now is, we really have entered a different period
  of history, and instead of accepting what’s new in the world,
  we’ve got a lot of folks in the United States, both Republicans
  and Democrats, who are trying to resurrect the language and the
  images of the Cold War and portray Russia today as the Soviet
  Union bound on world domination and that’s just nonsense. So what
  we’re trying to see is if we can help shift the debate and get a
  rational discussion about it.



  The fact of the matter is that in the United States, the average
  American doesn’t appreciate the fact that by us trying to expand
  NATO in Western Europe and beyond to the borders of Russia, that
  that would create some concern. I’ve always tried to explain to
  people, how would we react in the United States if Russia in turn
  was fostering a very close relationship with Mexico, and the
  Mexican government decided it wanted to have a closer
  relationship with Russia than Washington, and in turn was going
  to start putting troops in Mexico? Well, you could imagine the
  outrage and the furore that would erupt in the United States.



  We tend to try to portray these things in a way that doesn’t
  really take into account all the dynamics that are involved. And
  I think it’s really dangerous, because the kind of language and
  rhetoric that’s being used, and some of the recommendations afoot
  in Washington are proposing arming Ukrainian dissidents. And we
  really have no idea even who some of those people are.


RT:How likely is it that Obama will follow
  your advice to disavow any wish to make Ukraine a member of
  NATO?

LJ: Candidly I think it’s unlikely.



  Unfortunately, President Barack Obama is such a weak person right
  now and he’s not thinking strategically; he really doesn’t have a
  clear understanding of what the interests of the United States
  are. So he’s trying to fend off political critics.



  Now there is a very strong element in the United States which is
  pushing for really almost a confrontation with Russia over
  Ukraine and they haven’t really thought through it. When they
  talk about arming the dissidents or arming folks opposing Russia
  in the Ukraine, they don’t appreciate the possibility of the
  escalation that that can create.



  So I think what you have is a situation in which President Obama
  is being hit from the right and he’s sort of stumbling on the
  left. It’s unfortunate.



  One other thing we didn’t put in the letter but I probably would
  have added is that both Russia and the United States share a very
  common in trying to contain the spread of radial Sunni Islam in
  the world. In fact, I think Russia’s played an important role in
  that regard in Syria, but the United States seems to be having
  almost a split personality on the issue.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
