"India supports Russia over Crimea but stresses Ukraine integrity

Like China, India too has supported Russia over the Ukraine/Crimea crisis. But there is a difference.


  As recently as the third week of April, India's top diplomat told
  the Russians to de-escalate tensions with the West over the
  Ukraine issue while conveying India's total understanding to the
  Russians on the subject.



  This was conveyed by Indian Foreign Secretary Sujatha Singh to
  her Russian colleagues during an official visit to Moscow on
  April 15-17, her first independent visit to Russia since she took
  over last year. Singh co-chaired the India-Russia Foreign Office
  Consultations (FoCs) with her counterparts, Vladimir Titov, First
  Deputy Foreign Minister and Igor Morgulov, Deputy Foreign
  Minister, on April 16.



  Significantly, the Russians gave a detailed briefing to the
  Indians on the Ukraine situation and Moscow’s efforts to resolve
  the crisis. What has come out through official Indian channels
  about Singh's talks with her Russian counterparts is dense, full
  of clich?s and, therefore, needs to be decoded.



  First, the official Indian version.



  Sujatha Singh reiterated India’s position – calls on all sides to
  exercise restraint and work together constructively to find
  political and diplomatic solutions that would safeguard the
  legitimate interests of all sections of Ukraine’s population, of
  all countries in the region and promote long-term peace and
  stability in Europe and beyond. The two sides also discussed
  Russia’s then upcoming talks with Ukraine, USA and EU in Geneva
  on April 17.



  While reiterating its support for Moscow on Crimea’s merger with
  Russia, New Delhi stressed that India is for the unity and
  integrity of Ukraine, meaning while India is supportive of the
  Russian moves with regard to Crimea, New Delhi does not favor use
  of force by Russia against Ukraine. The Russian side told the
  Indians that it has no belligerent intentions against Ukraine.



  Significantly, Russia, Ukraine, the United States and the
  European Union successfully brokered an international agreement
  in Geneva on April 17. The deal envisages disarmament of armed
  groups in eastern Ukraine and a give-and-take with separatists:
  their vacation of occupied government buildings in exchange for a
  solemn assurance by the Ukraine government to grant total amnesty
  to separatists. The US too has agreed to delay another round of
  sanctions after Russia agreed not to intervene in Ukraine.



  However, on the flip side, international deals like the one in
  Geneva over Ukraine normally hang from a slender thread and many
  deal breakers may pop up any time. One such potential deal
  breaker is the continued defiance of the separatists in Donetsk
  who have taken the extreme step of declaring themselves as the
  independent Donetsk People's Republic. These
  separatists are pushing the envelope further by saying that they
  will not vacate the government buildings until the government in
  Kiev steps down.



  The Ukraine melting pot is set to make international news
  headlines in the coming days and weeks. There will be a laser
  beam focus on recently self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic
  whose leadership has declared its decision to hold a referendum
  simultaneously with east Ukraine’s Lugansk region. A total of 3.5
  million voters, living in the Donetsk Oblast, are eligible to
  take part in the referendum.



  Denis Pushilin, co-chairman of the Donetsk People’s Republic
  presidium, has gone on record as telling ITAR-TASS in an
  interview that Central and district election committees were
  already formed in Donetsk region and “printing of ballot
  papers will begin soon”.


  “A referendum will be held no later than on May 11 and it is
  highly probable that Lugansk will also hold it with us no later
  than on May 11. Lugansk just has to confirm similar wording of
  the question. Our question is as follows, “Do you support the
  independence of Donetsk People’s Republic?” Pushilin said in
  this interview.



  India to follow pragmatic diplomacy



  The Indian response to the Ukraine crisis has been pragmatic and
  will likely remain so even if Russia were to take extreme steps
  vis–?–vis Ukraine.



  For argument sake, let us consider the worst scenario: that
  Russia does bring its military forces into Ukraine. Even in such
  a scenario it is not likely that India would come up with a
  public condemnation of Russia. India would definitely come up
  with a statement, but its tone and tenor would hardly be
  hard-hitting. An Indian statement in such a scenario would only
  take the middle path, stressing the need for all stakeholders to
  resolve all issues through peaceful negotiations, and taking full
  care that India does not float an impression that it is wading
  into a Russia-West spat.



  India has far more at stake with Russia than with Ukraine. Even
  in the Russia versus the West scenario, India cannot ditch
  Russia. The Western world, led by the United States, has been
  mercurial and tried to balance India with Pakistan. The Russians
  have never done that and solidly supported India for the past
  four decades.



  In a way, India’s future response to the Ukraine developments has
  already been conveyed to Ukraine rather subtly.



  On February 28, at the peak of Russian actions in Crimea, the
  Ukraine ambassador in New Delhi, Oleksandr Shevchenko, met Dinkar
  Khullar, Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs.



  The Ukraine envoy made two requests: India’s support and the
  Indian recognition of the new government in Kiev.



  Unsurprisingly, the envoy returned empty handed. He was politely
  told that India will have to undertake internal consultations on
  the issue and formulate a stand, if required. As they say, speech
  is silver - silence golden!"
