"?Ukraine ‘escalation ladder’ leads to wider war

If Ukraine’s government backed by the US and EU countries continues on the course of violent crackdown against protesters in the east, a civil war may erupt even leading to a wider conflict, Richard Becker, foreign affairs analyst told RT.

RT:Do you think we'll see a harsher
  crackdown on protesters in the east of Ukraine during their
  self-determination vote, considering the bloodshed we’ve
  witnessed over the last few days?

Richard Becker: I think that the situation is
  escalating. I don't think either the US or Russia want war. You
  can see the unfolding developments here, the escalation ladder is
  being climbed and if Ukrainian forces directed by the
  self-appointed government in Kiev will carry out more harsh
  measures like we have seen in the last few days, more murderous
  actions, let’s call it by its right name, then it is very likely
  that the situation will escalate. Certainly the people in the
  east who do not want to live under this government are not going
  to accept that.


RT:You talk about murderous actions carried
  out by the authorities, but the West does not see it that way.
  They indeed blame the pro-autonomy protesters for all the latest
  violence and the deaths that we've been seeing. Jen Psaki, the US
  Department of State spokesperson, has blamed the events in
  Mariupol in the last two days on “pro-Russia” forces. Is that a
  fair accusation?

RB: Well it is breathtaking in its inaccuracy.
  People were celebrating their victory day. Victory over fascism.
  And the day that they are celebrating their victory these
  military units come in, paramilitary units as well. We are not
  sure who was involved, who really carried out the unprovoked
  shootings, killings of more than 20 people in Mariupol. And this
  follows on the heels of the fascist attack in Odessa where so
  many people were burned alive or beaten to death while trying to
  escape the fire while neo-Nazi slogans were being sung outside.
  So certainly Psaki and the US government assessment of this has
  been anything but accurate.


RT:And what about this referendum tomorrow?
  President Putin specifically said he wants to see it postponed
  but he is being ignored by those people in the east of Ukraine
  and yet the West still blames Moscow on what is happening there.
  Why is that?

RB: They are targeting the Russian government.
  They want to bring about a change inside Russia but they can’t do
  that immediately. I think that so many people there, particularly
  when we have seen just in recent days looking back at what
  happened in this region at the hands of the Nazis, the idea that
  the people there would accept living under a government that is
  riddled with neo-Nazis, really defiles logic and I think really
  explains why people want to go there forward with the expression
  of self-determination.


RT:But this could lead to civil war? Do you
  think there could be a peaceful resolution after all Moscow is
  asking for dialogue.

RB: There could be a resolution but I do not
  think we have a way to really see, we don’t have that crystal
  ball. And as I said before, the steps that are being taken, and
  especially the steps that are being taken by the self-appointed
  Kiev government can lead to escalation. War sometimes comes
  regardless of the leaders on either side and I think that we're
  seeing a possibility of civil war and we have to say a
  possibility of a wider war, if the Ukraine government backed by
  the US and the EU continues on its course.


RT:What do you mean by a wider war?

RB: We can’t ignore the fact that two of the
  parties that are involved in this conflict, the US and Russia,
  are the number one and two nuclear weapons powers in the world.
  And this point that the escalation ladder can be climbed step by
  step that neither side had intended to have an all-out war in the
  beginning. And we can see this in WWI and we can see it in many
  other wars, nevertheless it could lead to a conflict that could
  really pose a threat to humanity."
