"Moscow slams Kiev over 'political repressions'

Moscow is “extremely concerned” by the Kiev regime’s “political repression and persecution” against those who dare express opposition, the Russian Foreign Ministry said calling for the release all political prisoners.

“Mass media reports give us reason to speak of the start of a
  ‘witch hunt’, mass prosecution of dissidents and political
  repressions and persecutions against those who dare disagree with
  the Maidan [coup-imposed] authorities,” Russia’s Foreign
  Ministry said in a statement.



  It particularly recalled the case of recently arrested “people’s
  governor” of Donetsk, Pavel Gubarev.


“We are seriously concerned about the condition of Pavel
  Gubarev elected ‘a people’s governor’ of Donetsk,” the
  ministry said, adding that he was abducted, charged with
  organizing mass unrests and attempting to divide Ukraine, and
  tortured. He went on hunger strike against Kiev’s crackdown on
  protesters in Slavyansk, eastern Ukraine.



  According to the Ministry, the Organization for Security and
  Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Red Cross, managed to get
  access to Gubarev and visit him in prison on April 26, following
  “insistent calls” by Russia. The organizations confirmed the
  abovementioned situation.


“Pavel Gubarev is not the only political prisoner of the Kiev
  regime,” the statement stressed.



  Citing local mass media, the Ministry also said that Moscow is
  seriously worried by reports about the construction of large
  temporary detention centers for thousands of people in Ukraine,
  allegedly for illegal migrants.


“There is no such large number of illegal migrants in
  Ukraine, and buildings that are being erected, according to media
  reports, are very reminiscent of Nazi concentration camps. The
  question arises, whether the Kiev regime plans to drive together
  dissenting citizens there from the South-Eastern regions of the
  country,” the ministry said.



  If true, all that “does not accord” with the norms of
  the OSCE and the European Council as well as obligations to
  amnesty political prisoners and participants in the protests,
  which Kiev agreed to during the four-party talks on Ukraine in
  Geneva on April 17.


“Russia calls for the immediate release of [Donetsk Region
  people’s governor] Pavel Gubarev and other political prisoners of
  the Kiev regime,” the Ministry said.



  It has urged the European Council, OSCE and international rights
  organizations to condemn in the strongest possible terms the
  violations of human rights in Ukraine and to press for an end to
  political repressions in the country."
