"Moscow calls US, NATO military buildup near Russian borders ‘unprecedented’

Russia’s Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu has urged his Pentagon counterpart Chuck Hagel to help cool down the rhetoric over Ukraine and described NATO troops massing near Russian borders as “unprecedented.”


  Speaking to Hagel by phone on Monday, Shoigu also denied the
  accusations that there are Russian agents acting in Ukraine.


“The Russian minister has called for his colleague to help
  cool down the rhetoric [over Ukraine] as much as possible. He
  also unequivocally refuted baseless accusations that there are
  Russian sabotage and spy teams, purportedly destabilizing the
  situation in the south-east of the country,” said a
  statement from the Russian defense ministry.



  Instead, Shoigu classed the growth of NATO activity in Eastern
  Europe as “unprecedented”, saying it was accompanied by
  “provocative” rhetoric about “containing”
  Russia.



  According to the Russian statement, Hagel expressed “extreme
  concern” about the situation in Ukraine on behalf of
  Brussels and Washington, and said that NATO’s actions in Europe
  intend to demonstrate the unity and defensive capability of the
  alliance, and have “no provocative or expansive aims”.


  “There is nothing new for Russia in all of this,” Hagel,
  who assumed the role of Secretary of Defense last year, told
  Shoigu.



  The Russian minister defended Moscow’s decision to announce
  military exercises near the Ukrainian border last week.



  “As soon as the Ukrainian authorities said that they were not
  going to use regular troops against unarmed civilians, Russian
  units were re-stationed in their usual bases,” said Shoigu.



  Shoigu accused Kiev of deploying more than 15,000 personnel, 80
  tanks, 130 armored vehicles, and 60 artillery guns in the east of
  the country, “under the pretext of ‘fighting
  terrorism’.”


  On Monday, NATO continued to increase its presence in the Baltic regions as UK
  and France deployed eight fighter jets to Lithuania and Poland to
  strengthen NATO air defense amid rising tensions in Ukraine,
  according to officials.



  Out of the eight planes, four UK Typhoon jets touched down in
  Lithuania and another four French Rafale jets landed in Poland’s
  northeast town of Malbork, UK and French defense ministries
  stated.



  The additional jets in the area are to “provide reassurance
  to our NATO allies in eastern Europe and the Baltic states,”
  British Defense Minister Philip Hammond said. In the wake of
  recent events in Ukraine, it is right that NATO takes steps to
  reaffirm very publicly its commitment to the collective security
  of its members, he added."
