"US hypocrisy over Ukraine ‘absolutely stunning’

The US approach to violence in Ukraine is hypocritical, executive director of the Ron Paul Institute, Daniel McAdams, told RT. Holding an election in such a climate is impossible, yet the US will accept any result of the “wonderfully democratic” vote.

RT:The US has repeatedly praised Kiev for
  trying to de-escalate the situation, yet we all saw what happened
  in Odessa and what looks like it was allowed to happen...How do
  those things tally up?Daniel McAdams: Well it is interesting, because
  in Kiev, not that many months ago, a couple of months to be
  exact, unarmed police forces were sent out against the violent
  protesters, and the US government – including the president and
  the secretary of state have – said they were “disgusted” by the
  show of force against these protesters. And you see in Ukraine,
  it is obvious that the government in Kiev is using the military
  against its own citizens. It is blockading cities, starving
  people out. This is exactly what the US used as a pretext for
  attack in places like Libya and elsewhere. So the hypocrisy of
  the US side is absolutely stunning.
  RT:WeheardMarie Harf from the US
  State Department again praising Ukraine's “restraint,” where she
  said that Kiev has a “responsibility to maintain law and order
  for their own people,” and that “the onus really is on the
  Russian government to pull back.” What is your comment to
  that?DM: You have to wonder what reality these people
  are occupying. They have tried pulling a fast one, the State
  Department did. A couple of weeks ago when they put out those
  phony photos what they claimed were the Russian forces in
  Ukraine. The person who took those pictures, as you know, said
  they are completely phony. The New York Times was burned on the
  US State Department lies. To its credit, the NYT has actually
  sent some people into eastern Ukraine, and they have reported
  just a couple of days ago, that actually these militias don’t
  contain any Russians whatsoever and the people are not
  necessarily wanting to join Russia anyway. They are using old,
  worn out weapons, so the State Department just continues to pile
  lie upon lie. It is absolutely revolting.
  RT:Will things get better after the
  Ukrainian presidential elections later this month?DM: How can you run a presidential election when
  the army is firing on its own people? I have been an election
  monitor many times in bad situations, and it is simply
  impossible. Likewise, I'm afraid to say these referendums in the
  east will simply be ignored by the US or if this resolves, this
  desire will come out of presidential elections; the US and the
  OSCE will say, it is “wonderfully democratic.”
  
  RT:We are still hearing the US calling for people
  in the east of Ukraine to lay down their weapons, but at the same
  time they are backing Kiev's government crackdown...How does it
  add up, calling for one thing yet doing the other?
  DM: Well you see already there are reports in
  the German press over the weekend that the US CIA and the FBI has
  sent at least a couple of dozen people to advise the Ukrainian
  government on how to crack down. Perhaps they were advising them
  on assassination techniques and these sorts of things, one never
  knows.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
