"Gunmen attack self-defense forces in eastern Ukraine

Unknown gunmen have attacked a checkpoint near Slavyansk in eastern Ukraine. Two people were killed, local self-defense forces spokesperson Stella Horosheva told RT.

Follow
  RT’s LIVE UPDATES on military operation in eastern Ukraine


  “Unfortunately, the reports of a shooting have been
  confirmed,” Horosheva said. “Every night some sort of an
  incident takes place at one of our checkpoints. This time
  suspicious armed people were passing by and the self-defense
  members approached them to check their IDs. But the gunmen opened
  fire.”
  
  Horosheva said that self-defense forces were investigating the
  incident, trying to find out who was behind the attack.



  Almost simultaneously there appeared reports of unknown gunmen
  opening fire in the city of Artyomovsk, Donetsk Region.
  
  Artyomovsk is not calm now, there’s shooting. No information
  yet of casualties or injured,” a representative of the
  self-defense forces told Interfax over the phone.



  Ukraine’s Interior Ministry, meanwhile, says about a hundred
  unidentified militants attacked a military unit near Artyomovsk.
  
  “Attackers were shooting with machine-guns, grenade guns and
  were active in using fragmentation hand grenades,” the
  ministry’s statement says, adding that Ukrainian troops managed
  to repel the attack.



  On Wednesday, authorities in Kiev announced they were resuming a
  military operation against protesters in eastern Ukraine, which
  they describe as an ‘anti-terrorist’ initiative.



  “Law enforcement agencies are working on the eradication of
  all groups currently active in Kramatorsk, Slavyansk and other
  cities of the Donetsk and the Lugansk Regions,”
  coup-appointed First Vice-President Vitaly Yarema told
  journalists.



  Protesters have pointed out the move was contrary to the
  agreement on de-escalation reached in Geneva.



  The same day, the Ukrainian radical neo-fascist Right Sector
  group announced that it is moving its main headquarters from Kiev
  to Dnepropetrovsk to “closely monitor” developments in
  the east.
  
  “I moved my headquarters to Dnepropetrovsk. The purpose is to
  prevent the spread of the Kremlin infection,” Ukrainian
  presidential candidate and Right Sector leader Dmitry Yarosh
  said.
  
  Yarosh, placed by Russia on an international most wanted
  terrorist list, also announced that he had begun to establish a
  special squad of fighters called ‘Donbass’.
  
  “We coordinate all of our actions with the leadership of the
  National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of
  Internal Affairs and Security Service of Ukraine,” Yarosh
  said."
