"?Russia’s ‘civilized’ offshore? Moscow allocates $1.5 bn for Crimea

$1.5 billion (55.4 bln rubles) has been allocated by Moscow to the Russian republic of Crimea and Sevastopol to balance its budget in 2014. But what is on Moscow’s mind regarding the peninsula?


  Earlier, Russia’s Finance Ministry earmarked $6.9 billion (243
  billion rubles) in financial support for the country’s brand new
  subjects, and estimated that the Crimean Peninsula will be
  deficit- and aid-free by 2017.



  Euphoria upon returning under the safety of the Russian flag
  seems endless in Crimea and the traditional countrywide May
  vacation period undoubtedly adds to the sense of jubilation and
  hope for a better future. The monotony of a daily routine should
  soon settle, however, and the region’s prosperity now highly
  depends on active steps by the government in search for the
  winning road map.



  Long-term tax exemptions for new enterprises, scrapping of VAT in
  the service sector, attracting investments through incentives
  and, most importantly, cutting red tape in all spheres have been
  necessary prerequisites in the grand scheme for the development
  of Crimea and Sevastopol. This approach has led to the idea of
  creating a special economic zone in this region, announced by
  Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev at the end of March.


“The special economic zone in Crimea will be based on best
  examples in world practice and we are not going to substitute the
  Ukrainian system for a Russian one. We have a unique opportunity
  to capitalize on the current lack of a bureaucratic chokehold in
  Crimea. Our goal is to not make Crimea just like Russia, but a
  lot better and then spread the model throughout the country. The
  draft law regarding the special economic zone on the peninsula is
  in the making and we tried to include as many things that are on
  the minds of officials and business community as possible,”
  the minister for Crimean Affairs, Oleg Saveliev, told Russia’s
  Vedomosti newspaper.



  Cutting the infamous Russian red tape is a priority for the
  advancement of the entire peninsula. One of the potential
  novelties under discussion is the creation of a so called
  “civilized” offshore zone that allows litigation under
  British jurisdiction with mutual consent as well as in Russian
  arbitration courts. However, it’s not yet clear how English law
  could be applied on a territory that’s yet to be recognized by
  the United Nations.



  Though British legislation appears more flexible, Oleg Saveliev
  warns that there will be absolutely no room for money laundering
  and the legal source of funds is a matter of principle. The
  target is to create a special environment for investors and
  businesses to operate in a sphere of minimal bureaucratic
  administration where issues of land management and acquisition
  would be streamlined at a much faster rate.



  Russia’s Economic Development Ministry has named two categories
  of investors in Crimea’s special economic zone who will be exempt
  from all taxes, except excise duties and a 10 percent income tax.
  They are residents who invest directly into the peninsula and
  portfolio investors with local profit centers for investment
  outside Crimea. To claim benefits, the residents will be required
  to invest $4.3 million (150 million rubles) into projects in the
  Republic of Crimea, or Sevastopol, and the same goes for
  portfolio investors who will have to show this amount in
  registration fees.



  The government is also looking into a “free port”
  scenario, where the customs section will be located outside its
  boundaries and ships will be able to dock without having to go
  through lengthy border crossing formalities.



  The Russian Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol’s closest
  geographical neighbor, Ukraine, has the potential to become the
  main source of investment into the region and officials are ready
  to give the necessary guarantees and assistance to businesses
  from across the border.


“Maintaining cooperation with Ukrainian partners is one of my
  top priorities. We have good quality, cheap products from Ukraine
  in Crimea, hence we have retailers from there as well, and most
  of whom have good standing with us. If we were to substitute them
  with entirely Russian chains it would lead to a price hike,”
  RIA Novosti reported Crimean Affairs minister Saveliev as saying.



  The special economic zone will include the entire territory of
  the Crimean peninsula and that will allow tax-free delivery of
  goods to the region, while domestic products will be marked as
  made in the Customs Union."
