"Moscow releases ‘White Book’ on human rights abuses in crisis-torn Ukraine

A report on human rights violations, law abuses, use of torture, inhuman treatment and other crimes in Ukraine from the end of November 2013 to the end of March 2014, a so called ‘White Book’, has been presented by the Russian Foreign Ministry.


  The authors compiled their facts by carefully monitoring
  Ukrainian, Russian and some Western media reports. The study also
  considered statements from Ukraine’s “new government”
  and their supporters, and numerous eyewitness accounts, including
  those posted on the internet. They also recorded observations and
  interviews with people on the scene, and those collected by
  non-governmental organizations: The Foundation for Researching
  Problems in Democracy, and the Moscow Bureau for Human Rights.



  The study accuses those “who cynically, in
  pursuit of their own selfish interests …and pseudo-democratic
  demagogy, are plunging a multimillion multi-ethnic Ukrainian
  population into extremism, lawlessness, and a deep crisis of
  national identity.”


  According to the authors, the aim of the document is “to
  focus on facts which the international community and key
  international human rights bodies have not shown proper and
  impartial attention to.”

“The onslaught of racism, xenophobia, ethnic intolerance, the
  glorification of the Nazis and their Banderite sycophants should
  be brought to a speedy end through the united efforts of the
  Ukrainian people and the international community,” it adds.



  The document states that the alternative may have
  “devastating consequences for peace, stability, and
  democratic development in Europe.” That’s why it’s
  “necessary to prevent a further escalation of this
  situation,” it adds.



  The document, written in Russian and English, details examples of
  violations to the right to life and violations of public order
  and safety, as well as the use of torture, inhuman treatment and
  other crimes committed in the period from the end of November
  2013 to the end of March 2014. It was presented to Russian
  President Vladimir Putin on Monday.



  According to the authors of the study, the list of the “most
  flagrant violations of fundamental international norms by
  ultranationalist, neo-Nazi, and extremist forces which have
  monopolized the Euromaidan protests, while far from being
  exhaustive, nevertheless gives enough grounds to claim that such
  violations were widespread.”


  Another violation, according to the authors of the ‘White Book’,
  is the “interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign
  state.”


  Among the violations that took place in Ukraine, the ‘White Book’
  mentions weapons, equipment, and the tactics of the Euromaidan
  participants. It also presents evidence of deliberately committed
  violence and provocations by the so-called Peaceful
  demonstrators.


  Meanwhile, Discrimination along ethnic and linguistic lines,
  xenophobia and racial extremism and incitement of racial hatred
  are also mentioned in the study, along with religious
  intolerance, including threats to the Russian Orthodox Church.



  The document also mentions the serious restrictions on the
  freedom of media and censorship in Ukraine. Violations of the
  right to freedom of thought and belief, including political
  beliefs, and violations of the right to express them are also
  mentioned in the ‘White Book’


“The history of the twentieth century has given tragic
  lessons which would be irresponsible and also at times just
  unlawful to ignore. The ‘White Book’ is a signal to those who
  have forgotten this or pretend to forget,” the document
  states.



  Examples of violence



  Below there are several cases of human rights violations
  described in the White Book:



  On February 18, extremists from the Right Sector seized the
  headquarters of the Party of Regions in Kiev. Two men were
  brutally murdered, one died of suffocation and burns, and the
  other's head was smashed in. Females who were present in the
  building were stripped half-naked, their backs painted with
  symbols and slogans.



  On February 19, Maidan protesters severely beat and publicly
  tortured the governor of the Volyn region in western Ukraine, in
  the northwestern city of Lutsk. When Aleksandr Bashkalenko tried
  to calm down a raging mob of rioters, he was handcuffed to the
  local Euromaidan stage and asked to sign a “voluntary”
  resignation. After he refused, radicals poured several liters of
  water on him in February temperatures and left him handcuffed.



  Also on February 19, several buses with activists returning to
  Crimea from anti-European integration protests in Kiev were
  stopped at barricades which possessed the flags of the Udar
  (Strike) and Svoboda parties in Cherkassy region, central
  Ukraine. The people, both men and women, were dragged out of the
  buses by militants who beat them with bats, doused them with
  gasoline, and threatened to set on them fire. Many of those
  captured were forced to take off their shoes “for the needs
  of Maidan soldiers.” The humiliation and abuse continued for
  several hours. There were casualties among the victims. Police
  chose not to interfere.



  On March 16, at least 30 Ukrainian radicals brutally beat a group
  of local teenagers in the city of Dnepropetrovsk, eastern
  Ukraine, because they did not answer the nationalists’ greeting
  of “Glory to Ukraine!” Such reports have become
  commonplace in the city. Though such crimes frequently occur in
  front of the police, officers try not to get involved, according
  to the White Book.



  Abusive attitudes towards Jews is another violation of human
  rights described in the document, as it draws an example of
  vandalism towards a monument to Jewish victims of the Holocaust
  in the city of Aleksandria in Kirovograd region on February 2.
  The vandals used black paint to draw a swastika and wrote
  “Death to kikes” and “Zieg heil” on the
  monument.



  Earlier, on January 17, Dov Ber Glickman, a 33-year-old Russian
  citizen, was beaten up after leaving a synagogue. It appeared
  that the attackers had blades installed on the toes of their
  shoes, which left deep wounds."
