"Hundreds surround Int. Ministry HQ in Lugansk, demand police surrender

Anti-government protesters have surrounded the Interior Ministry office in Lugansk, after seizing the city’s regional administration building and prosecutor’s office.

#LUGANSK:
    Standoff & tension. Hundreds outside Int. Ministry, incl
    armed self-defence force http://t.co/k4seiz4578pic.twitter.com/BQvVtefTe7
    — RT (@RT_com) April
    29, 2014


  Several hours into the gathering, a large crowd of people remains
  outside. According to live stream footage from the scene, the
  mood of the crowd is mostly joyful with people singing songs and
  joking. Protesters are demanding that police surrender and leave
  the HQ. A group of people formed a “human corridor” through which
  they want police to leave the building. From time to time,
  protesters chanted pro-Russian slogans.



  For more videos and photos from the scene, follow RT’s stringer
  Graham Phillips on Twitter.



  Meanwhile, Ukraine’s coup-appointed President Aleksandr Turchinov
  has ordered Interior Minister Arsen Avakov to sack police heads
  in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions in eastern Ukraine.



  Earlier on Tuesday, thousands of protesters gathered in central
  Lugansk expecting to hear the government’s response to their
  ultimatum issued on Sunday. The people are demanding amnesty for
  all political prisoners, the holding of a referendum and making
  Russian the second official language. In case of no reply, the
  protesters vowed to take further steps.


We waited till 14:00 local time, the time we expected the
  reply by. No answer was received. Kiev has completely ignored our
  demands,” local protest leader, Oleg Dereko, told RIA
  Novosti.



  Protesters rallied towards the regional administration building
  when none of the officials responded.
  
  The protesters, some of them armed with clubs and metal shields,
  have taken over the building and raised a Russian flag on top of
  it.



  Demanding local government to come out to the people, the
  protesters moved to the prosecutor’s office, where, according to
  media estimates, some 700 people started hurling stones, breaking
  windows and knocking down doors. It took them ten minutes to get
  inside, reports said."
