"Choking crisis: China imposes stricter penalties against polluters

Chinese authorities have introduced amendments to the country’s Environmental Protection Law imposing tougher penalties on polluters, legislation that comes amid a growing environmental crisis that is choking the country.


  The amendments passed by the Standing Committee of China's
  National People's Congress (NPC), the country's top legislature,
  will come into effect in January 2015.



  It is the first change to the legislation in 25 years. The
  country’s Environmental Protection Law was introduced in 1989.



  The changes come in the wake of public concern over the high
  level of pollution in the country as well as a two-year debate
  among scholars, the government and state-owned enterprises over
  changes to environmental protection policies.



  Tightening the screws



  According to Xin Chunying, deputy director of the Standing
  Committee’s Legislative Affairs Commission, the legislation would
  deliver a blow ... to our country's harsh environmental
  realities, Reuters reported.



  It will enable the Environmental Protection Ministry to take
  stronger punitive action toward polluters, including shutting
  down and confiscating their assets. The amendments will also make
  public the information on environmental monitoring and introduce
  a daily-based fine system to punish offenders.



  The law says that those responsible for environmental pollution
  will face up to 15 days under arrest if their enterprise produces
  or uses forbidden pesticides and refuses to suspend production
  after being issued a ban.



  Chinese legislators also introduced an “ecological red
  line that will declare certain regions off-limits for
  polluting industries. The law also contains special articles and
  provisions on tackling smog as well as making citizens more aware
  of environmental protection.



  Local officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty of
  covering up environment-related wrongdoing, falsifying data or if
  they don’t give closure orders to enterprises which illegally
  discharge pollutants, the amendments say.



  June 5 has also been declared Environment Day in the country.



  China’s environmental tragedy


The biggest breakthrough is ... that [the ministry] have
  used a professional document to talk about the disclosure of
  environmental information and public participation,” said Ma
  Jun, head of the Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs,
  an independent environmental group. “This, in fact,
  establishes some of the public's basic environmental
  rights.


  The Chinese government has been trying to introduce policies to
  clean up the environment, including “cloud seeding” –
  artificial rain – to disperse the smog that affects the majority
  of the country’s cities.



  The smog has become so thick it is impeding photosynthesis,
  potentially disrupting China’s food supply. According to an
  associate professor at China Agricultural University, He
  Dongxian, if air pollution continues at the same rate, China will
  experience something akin to a “nuclear winter.”


  According to China’s deputy minister of environmental protection,
  71 out of 74 cities monitored in China for pollution in 2013 fail
  to meet Beijing-set standards.



  The deteriorating quality of drinking water is considered one of
  the country’s major problems. According to an annual report by
  China’s Ministry of Land and Resources, at least 60 percent of underground water is polluted
  in the country.



  The enormous rate of the water pollution in the country sparked
  new concerns in April after cancer-inducing benzene was found in water supply in the city of
  Lanzhou, which is considered one of the most polluted in the
  country.



  The soil is also massively polluted across the country. According
  to a report released earlier in April on the website of the
  Ministry of Environmental Protection, one-fifth of Chinese
  farmland is polluted as a result of the country’s dramatic
  industrialization, overuse of farm chemicals and minimal
  environmental protection."
