"Football ultras attack anti-govt protesters in eastern Ukraine (VIDEO, PHOTOS)

Peaceful rallies in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkov turned violent as a crowd of several thousand football ultras attacked a crowd of some 300 anti-government protesters. At least 14 people were injured, including two law enforcement officers.


  Thousands of fans of two Ukrainian football clubs Dnipro and
  Metalist gathered in Kharkov’s Constitution Square where they
  joined some 250 pro-Kiev activists holding a rally.


  Up to 5,000 ultras, according to local media estimates, intended
  to march in support of the country’s unity from the square to
  Metalist stadium, which is some 3km away and where the game
  between the two clubs started, as scheduled, at 7:30pm local time
  (16:30 GMT).



  The march started with Ukrainian anthem and drum-rolls. Football
  ultras, some equipped with burning torches and petards, were
  chanting “Glory to Ukraine. Glory to heroes!” and
  “Ukraine’s above all!”


  According to local media, several groups from the Right Sector
  radical network also took part in the rally.



  A massive fight erupted when the football ultras reached the
  street where the anti-Kiev protesters with St. George ribbons
  (the symbol of victory in WWII) were holding their rally in
  support of broader regional autonomy from Kiev.



  Multiple videos shot by local TV channels show crowds of masked
  football fans chasing and beating activists. This footage from
  the scene below shows a group of fans severely beating a man
  lying on the ground (00:59).



  According to the local UNIAN news agency’s correspondent, he saw
  at least five people lying on the ground with injuries.



  It can also be seen that some of the ultras with covered faces
  are hurling stones.



  Local police confirmed that 14 people sustained injuries,
  including two of its officers. At least eight of the injured have
  been taken to hospitals, while another six received help at the
  scene where ambulances were immediately dispatched. Volunteers
  from the Red Cross also arrived to provide assistance.



  The football ultras smashed cars and beat random people. This man
  in the video below is seen with his head covered in blood and the
  windshield of his car broken in pieces.



  Kharkov police said aggressive football fans were using baseball
  bats and sticks.



  Despite the damage and violence, no attackers have been arrested.



  According to local Vesti.ua the fight seems to have been planned
  in advance. The news portal cited anti-Maidan activists who were
  posting on social networks: “Organizing ... Looking after
  each other, neutralizing provocateurs. Act tough, but remain on
  the defensive. Take remedies and medicines."
