"?Former nuclear carrier sailor denies US Navy hacking allegations

The former US sailor accused of infiltrating government networks using the Navy’s own computers and posting links to his group’s findings on Twitter says he and his associates “did dumb things.”


  Prosecutors allege Nicholas Paul Knight, 27, a former systems
  administrator in the US Navy’s nuclear reactor department of the
  USS Harry S. Truman, led a double life during his time as a
  sailor, leading a group of hackers called Team
  Digi7al that stole confidential information and would post it
  online.


“Essentially I am in trouble for posting all of the stuff on
  Twitter,” Knight told ABC News by email. “Although a lot
  of people are saying I was the leader of some crime organizations
  that was out to get people which wasn’t true. Just a group of
  people that were dumb and did dumb things.”


  The group targeted high-profile US government websites –
  including the US Navy site and a Department of Homeland Security
  site – as well as various websites of the Library of Congress,
  the World Health Organization, and Harvard University, according
  to the single-count court records filed on Monday.



  Prosecutors also say the group, with help from other members of
  Team Digi7al, hacked the Navy’s SWM database, which held
  information about 220,000 Navy sailors. Others alleged targets
  included the US National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, a
  military mapping agency, and the Los Alamos National Laboratory,
  a government-run developer that build the atomic bombs dropped
  during World War II.



  Team Digi7al would boast of their attacks on Twitter, with
  Knight, who called himself a “nuclear blackhat,” acting
  as the group’s top “publicist,” according to the US
  Department of Justice.



  The court filing said three alleged members of Team Digi7al were
  minors when they joined the activities. One alleged member told
  investigators some in the group were “somewhat politically
  inclined” to release secret information. But the group was
  also out for “fun,” another alleged member said,
  “which, when you get right down to it, that’s what everyone
  does.”


  Knight, who says he is not very political, was on duty aboard the
  Truman when he allegedly “conduct[ed] unlawful Team Digi7al
  activities on the Navy’s computer network.” Though the
  filing does not accuse him of trying to hack into the ship’s
  protected systems.



  Knight did not deny he hacked into several targets, as the filing
  suggests, but he said none of those sites were related to the US
  military or government. He claims another member of the group –
  which Knight helped to catch – did most of the hacking while he
  posted the results.



  The court filing said Knight, who was never arrested, agreed to
  cooperate with law enforcement after his home was raided in
  February 2013.



  When a suspect is charged in a criminal information filing –
  instead of an indictment – it often indicates the defense will
  not contest the charges, prosecutor in the case Ryan Souders told
  ABC News.


“I did something dumb and am willing to suffer the
  consequences,” Knight said.



  Knight says he was honorably discharged and “conducted
  [himself] professionally while on the ship.” Military
  records indicate he joined the Navy in 2009 and reported to the
  Truman in 2011. He was a Machinists Mate Third Class when he left
  the service in May 2013, shortly after his home was raided.



  Knight says he is currently employed as a service specialist at
  Siemens. The technology firm confirmed Knight is an employee
  there but did not provide ABC News with further comment.



  The Navy and the Department of Homeland Security did not respond
  to request for comment either.



  Attorneys for Knight and Daniel Krueger, another Team Digi7al
  member named in the filing, did not respond to requests for
  comment.



  If found guilty, Knight and Krueger, 20, could face up to five
  years in prison or a $250,000 fine, according to the Justice
  Department."
