"ROME, May 18. /ITAR-TASS/. Hundreds of demonstrators rallied outside the Ukrainian embassy in Rome on Saturday to protest against European media’s distorted coverage of the Ukraine crisis. The action took place on the initiative of Julietto Kieza, an Italian public figure, prominent journalist and a former European MP.

“No one in Italy knows the truth about what’s going on in Ukraine. The information they are giving us is absolutely false. We should dissuade our people, who are slowly coming to realize what is really going on (in Ukraine),” Kieza told Itar-Tass.

He is convinced that the events in Ukraine were more than just a “regional crisis” and were posing “an unprecedented threat to all”.

The death of 48 Ukrainian nationals in Odessa on May 2 was the last drop. Many of those who gathered in Rome on Saturday had come to voice their protest against the revival of fascism and Nazism in Ukraine and in Europe.

“No to fascism, no to war and no to NATO in Ukraine,” the peaceful protesters chanted.

One of the action’s participants, Hugo Moro, said that the demonstrators wanted to express solidarity with Ukrainians who “had fallen victim to a plot and the new Nazi government in Kiev.”

They included old and young people. Most of them were Italians who, according to their own acknowledgement, did not believe official Italian media. Many of them are supporters of left-wing parties, which have traditionally been opposed to fascism. But the Italians who share Russia’s stance not only on Ukraine but on many other international issues also include representatives of rightist parties and movements.

According to Kieza, both representatives of right-wing and left-wing parties see Russia “as the only country capable of countering the U.S. global diktat.”

The manifestation in Rome has spread to social networks. Many users of Facebook and other portals have spread photos posted by the participants in the demonstration thus virtually bringing the protest action to other Italian cities.

Julietto Kieza said that at least 50 similar protest actions had taken place across Italy in recent week."
