"MOSCOW, May 15. /ITAR-TASS/. Russia’s Foreign Ministry has expressed concern over tensions in Ukraine.

“The internal situation in Ukraine continues deteriorating,” the ministry’s spokesman, Alexander Lukashevich said on Thursday.

Moscow urges Kiev to come to senses and stop the operation against its own people, Lukashevich said.

All regions and political forces should take part in roundtable meetings in Ukraine in compliance with the Geneva agreements, he said.

Ukrainian law enforcers launched the so-called “counter- terrorism”, punitive in its essence, operation in the south-east several days after the April 17 Geneva talks on the settlement of the situation in Ukraine.

A total of 15,000 servicemen, tanks, armored vehicles, artillery, aircraft, as well as the Right Sector’s paramilitary battalions — the Dnipr, Slobozhanshchina and Donbass were hastily transported to regions. The deterioration of the situation in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, where peaceful civilians were dying, has been accompanied by the tragedy in Odessa: radicals assaulted and set ablaze the House of Trade Unions and a tent camp, where the supporters of federalization were gathering the signatures for a referendum. Fifty people died and over two hundred people were injured.

“We’ll do our best to thoroughly investigate the May 2 tragedy in Odessa with the participation of international experts. Till now the pace of the investigation is still unknown. The tragedy in Odessa proved Kiev’s stake on using force,” Lukashevich said.

About seven million people (16% of the population) live in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. “We have a rather ‘smooth impression’ that all is normal in the country. But problems emerge because of two rebel regions,” Lukashevich said.

“So, we have a false impression that peaceful civilians die in Ukraine every day,” he said.

Lukashevich noted inadmissibility of Kiev’s use helicopters with UN symbols without authorization.

“We raised the question at the United Nations. We’re assured that the UN maintained close contacts with Kiev. The UN pledged to inform us about the investigation,” he said.

“The use of hardware without the UN authorization is inadmissible and arouses serious concern,” he said.

Earlier media reported that at least three helicopters colored white with UN identification marks were used in the military operation near Kramatorsk."
