"Ron Paul: Why is US involved in Ukraine?

The United States is being hypocritical in its response to the armed clashes between Kiev and pro-Russian groups in eastern Ukraine, former Congressman Ron Paul wrote in a new column.


  In the column, published by the Ron Paul Institute for Peace
  and Prosperity, the former libertarian lawmaker questioned the
  American role in the conflict unfolding in Ukraine, criticizing
  the US for blaming recent outbreaks of violence on Russian
  sympathizers rather than the Ukrainian military.



  The column comes just a few days after the Ukrainian military
  killed about 20 people in Mariupol, where the country's Interior
  Ministry claimed that pro-Russia militants attempted to seize the
  local police building. Residents in the area, meanwhile, stated
  that local police did not want to take orders from Kiev, and that
  sparked a response by the military that ended up engulfing
  outsiders who arrived in support of the officers.



  Following a statement by the US State Department that pinned the
  blame on pro-Russia separatists, Paul wrote the American
  government should not support Ukraine’s use of military force
  against its own people, particularly if they are unarmed.



  According to Paul, this position is a reversal of what the US was
  saying before protesters effectively overthrew their former
  government in Kiev, led by former president Viktor Yanukovich.
  During that time, the US urged the government not to respond with
  violence when protesters stormed buildings. “But now that
  those former protesters have come to power,” Paul wrote,
  “the US takes a different view of protest.”

“The US sees this as a Russian-sponsored destabilization
  effort, but is it so hard to understand that the people in
  Ukraine may be annoyed with the US and EU for their involvement
  in regime change in their country?” he asked. “Would we
  be so willing to accept an unelected government in Washington put
  in place with the backing of the Chinese and Iranians?”


  Paul also criticized the US for threatening to implement
  additional sanctions against Russia should votes for increased
  autonomy move forward in eastern Ukraine. Although Russian
  President Vladimir Putin called for a delay in the vote, it went
  ahead anyway, a development that Paul believes shows Russia is
  not in control of the anti-Kiev movement.



  Finally, Paul questioned why the US is involved in Ukraine at
  all.


“We are broke,” he wrote. “We cannot even afford to
  fix our own economy. Yet we want to run Ukraine? Does it really
  matter who Ukrainians elect to represent them? Is it really a
  national security matter worth risking a nuclear war with Russia
  whether Ukraine votes for more regional autonomy and a weaker
  central government?”"
