"US sanctions won't undermine Russian economy

The third round of US sanctions do not heavily target Russia's key industries, but include asset freezes against 17 companies and 7 individuals, including Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.


  All companies on the fresh round of sanctions are owned by Gennady
  Timchenko, Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, or Bank Rossiya, which were targets of the
  second round, the US Treasury Department said in a statement on their website on Monday, April
  28.


Companies have been designated on the Entity List based on a
  determination they are involved, or pose a significant risk of
  becoming involved, in activities contrary to the national
  security and foreign policy interests of the United States,
  the US Office of Congressional and Public Affairs said in a press
  release.



  The banks sanctioned are SMP Bank, Russia's 36th largest by
  assets, Sobinbank, the country's 90th largest bank, and
  Investkapitalbank, number 197.



  Arkady Rotenberg's bank, SMP, was ready for the
  sanctions, according to a bank spokesperson, who said the lending
  institution had already taken a number of precautions to minimize
  any sanction-related damage to customers.



  Following the announcement of sanctions, US-based payment system
  MasterCard suspended its services to two Russian banks, targeted
  SMP and Investcapitalbank. This brings the number of Russian
  banks that the system has stopped working with to four. In March,
  MasterCard suspended work with Sobinbank and Bank Rossiya, but
  then resumed services shortly. International
  payment systems Visa and MasterCard already halted services with
  both SMP and Investcapitalbank in March.



  No publicly-listed Russian companies were included on the new
  sanction list, but Obama said that the US and its allies would
  keep broader sanctions “in reserve” in the event of
  further escalation on the ground in Ukraine. Before, US
  politicians called for sanctions against Russia's finance and
  energy sectors.



  Sechin, Sanctioned



  Igor Sechin, the head of Russia’s biggest oil company Rosneft, is
  a prominent Russian businessman singled out by the US. Former
  Board of Director, Sergey Chemezov, was also placed under
  sanctioned. Chemezov is the current CEO of state-owned hi-tech
  holding company Rostec.



  Sanctions, however, do not affect Russia’s state-owned Rosneft.



  Commenting on the newly imposed sanctions, Sechin linked the
  measure to Rosneft’s activity and considered it as “an
  appreciation” of the company’s “efficiency”.

“We understand that the American administration noticed the
  company’s active actions aimed at minimizing the risks, linked
  with the unilateral orientation of hydrocarbons exports to
  concrete regional markets, Rosneft's press office cited
  Sechin as saying in a statement. I take the last steps by
  Washington as an appreciation of the efficiency of our
  work.


  He assured Rosneft’s shareholders that the US measures against
  him would not affect the company’s effectiveness and stressed
  that the oil producer will continue cooperation with American
  partners.



  Despite the sanctions, US oil giant ExxonMobil and Rosneft will
  continue to develop hydrocarbon reserves in the arctic waters of
  Russia. On Monday, Rosneft approved the development of two oil
  fields jointly with ExxonMobil at a board meeting, the company
  said in a statement.



  Rosneft shares in Moscow fell 1.56 percent at 18:30 local Moscow
  time. The total market capitalization of the company is $64.7
  billion. BP shares were down 1.3 percent.



  By personally going after Sechin, the US has sent a message that
  the next round of sanctions could hit the heart of the Russian
  economy- the energy sector.



  BP and 'Big Oil'



  When Sechin was rumored to be on a previous EU sanction list, a
  spokesperson said
  the move was stupid and would sabotage the
  West, which has very tight-knit relations with 'Big Oil'
  companies based in the UK and US.



  Rosneft is the world’s largest-listed oil company, and British
  Petroleum (BP) has a 19.75 percent stake, making it the biggest
  foreign investor in Russia's oil sector.



  BP, Europe's second-largest oil company is based in the UK, but
  over 40 percent of assets are located in the US.BP CEO Bob Dudley
  has told shareholders the company remains positive about business
  with Russia.


We are considering today's announcement to see specifically
  what this may mean for BP, a spokesman for BP in London
  said, adding the company would comply with any
  relevant sanctions.


We are committed to our investment in Rosneft, and we intend
  to remain a successful, long term investor in Russia, the
  spokesman said.



  Other individuals on the list are politicians, including Deputy
  Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak and Aleksey Pushkov, Chairman of the
  State Duma Committee on International Affairs.



  Individuals on the new list will have their assets frozen and be
  denied visas to travel to the US.



  America's 'Cold War Mentality'



  Previously, the EU and
  US
  blacklisted dozens of Russian politicians and businessmen,
  freezing assets and issuing travel bans. The US also imposed
  sanctions on Russia’s 14th largest lender, Bank Rossiya.



  The US Treasury Department's statement said the new sanctions
  were motivated by Russia's failure to deescalate violence in
  neighboring Ukraine.



  Moscow maintains that further economic sanctions against Russia
  simply fuel the revival of a Cold War mentality and are
  counter-productive. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said
  that Western efforts to disrupt Russia's influence over the world
  energy market will backfire and hurt the US.



  The EU has so far not introduced a third stage of sanctions
  against Russia over Ukraine, as there is little consensus among
  member states.



  On April 17, leaders from Russia, Ukraine, EU, and the US
  agreed a peace plan for Ukraine in Geneva,
  Switzerland."
