"Nuland has tough time justifying US involvement in Ukraine

While the Obama administration insists that supporting Ukrainian Presidential elections are vital to national interests, some members of the US political elite are questioning the costs of getting involved.


  During a two hour House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing, the US
  Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland shared her assessment of the US role in Ukraine's crisis
  and the upcoming presidential election.



  But instantaneously she came under fire from Dana Rohrabacher, a
  republican congressman from California.



  “We did have legitimate election before, and the legitimate
  president was removed after we had major street violence. There
  were pictures of people running around that we were told were
  neo-Nazis,” Rohrabacher challenged Nuland.



  Nuland faced a hard time coming up with answers.



  “First of all the vast majority of those who were
  participating on Maidan were peaceful protesters. There were
  mothers and grandmothers and veterans,” Nuland said, but
  before being able to continue, Rohrabacher reminded the diplomat
  of vast presence of violent Ukrainian radicals.



  “I saw those pictures and I also saw a lot of people throwing
  fire bombs at groups of policemen. There were people shooting
  into the ranks of police. So, yes, there were mothers with
  flowers, but there were also very dangerous street fighters
  engaged in those demonstrations. The question is: were there
  neo-Nazi groups involved?”


  Nuland could not provide a definitive answer, saying that
  “there were many colors of Ukraine involved including very
  ugly colors.”


  For the record, Nuland submitted and read out a statement where
  she said that US policy towards Ukraine is based on four pillars.



  First of all Washington is offering “financial, technical and
  non-lethal security assistance” for the May 25 election.



  “In addition to $92 million in FY2013 State/USAID funds and
  $86 million in FY2014 funds, we are providing an additional $50
  million in technical assistance and the $1 billion dollar loan
  guarantee under the authority passed by Congress on April
  1st.”


  The US electoral assistance includes “$11 million for
  non-partisan election activities, including efforts to support
  voter education and civic participation” as well as
  participation as observers in the upcoming poll.



  “In addition to the 100 OSCE observers we are sending, the
  United States is supporting 255 long-term observers and over 3300
  short-term observers,” Nuland said.



  Financial aid also involves “$18 million in non-lethal
  security assistance to the Ukrainian armed forcesand
  State Border Guard Service to enable them to fulfill their core
  missions.”


  Secondly the US, Nuland outlined, is working with its
  international partners “to leave the door open for diplomatic
  de-escalation should Russia change course,” claiming that
  Kiev implemented the terms of the Geneva deal, while “Russia
  fulfilled none of its commitments.”


  Third, Washington is steadily increasing economic sanctions
  Russia’s which Nuland claims is bearing fruit.



  “The Russian economy ... is already buckling under the
  pressure of these internationally imposed sanctions. Its credit
  ratings are hovering just above junk status,” said Nuland.



  Not everyone agreed, with Ted Poe, a Texas Republican, saying
  many are not convinced that sanctions do indeed produce any
  effect.



  “I don't think it's worked,” he said. “In all
  fairness, I don't think it's stopped Russia from doing
  anything.”


  Meanwhile, Nuland stated that the last step US is taking in
  regards to Ukraine is reassuring its NATO allies of US commitment
  as well as “providing support to other frontline states like
  Moldova and Georgia.”


  “We have worked with our NATO Allies to provide visible
  reassurance—on land, sea and in the air—that Article 5 of the
  NATO Treaty means what it says.”


  In the meantime, the only tangible proposals on resolving the
  Ukrainian crisis reached by President Putin and OSCE
  Chairperson-in-Office and Swiss President Didier Burkhalter
  during negotiations in Moscow on Wednesday, were ignored by the
  government in Kiev.



  Rejecting the OSCE roadmap, Kiev has put forward its own vague
  plan of organising “national unity roundtables” with
  “representatives of all political forces from all regions and
  civil society.” At the same time Kiev pledged regardless of other developments to continue
  its “anti-terrorist operation” against southeastern
  Ukraine, which the Russian foreign ministry says bluntly
  contradicts the agreement reached in Geneva."
