"Russia to demand advanced payment for gas supplies to Ukraine from June

Gazprom says Kiev has failed to pay its mounting gas bill, which now has hit $3.5 billion. This means that in June Ukraine will receive Russian gas only on the condition of advanced payment.


  The deadline has passed, no payment has been received,
  said Sergey Kupriyanov, the company's representative. Earlier the
  company said that if the deadline was not met, Gazprom would
  issue an advance bill for June gas supplies on May 16.



  Naftogaz, Ukraine’s state-owned oil and gas company, has a long
  record of late payments and unpaid bills to Gazprom, a problem
  which has only gotten worse as Ukraine has slipped into civil
  unrest.



  The debt as of May 7, 2014 stands at $3.508 billion, Gazprom said
  Wednesday, up from the $2.2 billion tab at the end of April. The
  sum is contested by Ukraine. Moscow, Kiev and the European
  Commission plan to hold a new round of talks to negotiate the
  debt; its date will be discussed on May 12, Russia's Energy
  Ministry said.



  The missed April payment came the same day Ukraine received
  its first tranche of $3 billion from the International Monetary
  Fund (IMF). Out of that sum, Naftogaz may be eligible to use up
  to $2.16 billion to pay off its massive debts to Russia,
  according to documents prepared by the fund. If the money isn't
  used to pay to Gazprom, Russia's gas company has the right to ask
  for advanced payments.



  Gazprom supplies Europe with 30 percent of the continent’s
  natural gas. Half of these Russian supplies are shipped through
  Ukraine.



  Price wars



  Later on Wednesday, the prime minister of Ukraine’s coup-imposed
  government, Arseny Yatsenyuk, said that Kiev will quickly repay
  its Russian debt if Gazprom agrees to return the gas price to
  $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters, the price the country enjoyed
  under ousted President Viktor Yanukovich. Moscow ended
  the discount in April, raising gas prices nearly 50 percent.


“Once such price is established and the respective additional
  agreement signed, Ukraine will pay back its debt within ten
  days,” Yatsenyuk said, cited by Interfax.



  But this will only happen if Gazprom realizes that using “gas
  as a political weapon is unacceptable,” he added.



  Naftogaz CEO Andrey Kobolev said if the pricing conflict is not
  resolved, his company will take the case to the Stockholm
  Arbitration Council.



  Meanwhile, the future cost of gas for Ukraine calculated
  separately by Russia and by the West is pretty much the same, but
  for different reasons. The IMF believes that Kiev will receive
  gas this year at the average European price of $380 per 1,000
  cubic meters, a price the IMF took into account when calculating
  Kiev's lending program, Kommersant reported. The number is given
  with a perspective that Russia would renew its $100 discount to
  Kiev based on Kharkov agreements. Although Russia says that there
  will be no more discounts, the gas price for Ukraine in 2015
  predicted by the Russian Ministry of Economic Development is said
  to be $350 per 1,000 cubic meters. It's even less than the IMF
  calculation and is based on the expected fall in the price of
  oil. As the situation with Ukraine is quiet unstable, the
  Ministry has taken into consideration a moderately pessimistic
  scenario, Kommersant was told by its source.



  The first gas hike came in after Gazprom cancelled the Yanukovich
  discount after the first quarter of 2014 and bumped prices up to
  $385.50 per 1,000 cubic meters. The second $100 gas hike came in April when Russia canceled its
  Black Sea Fleet host agreement with Ukraine after Crimea voted to
  join Russia. Moscow said Kiev owes $11.4 billion for all the
  discounts it received since the 2010 deal.



  Situation is 'critical'



  Russian Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak warned over the weekend
  that the situation with gas transit through Ukraine had reached a
  “very critical point” as the gas supplies in underground
  storage facilities have dropped to a point where they can’t guarantee supplies from Russia to
  Europe.



  In 2009, Moscow was forced to turn off supplies through Ukraine
  over pricing disputes, but even after this “trigger” Gazprom
  didn’t demand that Kiev start a prepayment contract.



  State-owned Naftogaz is on the brink of bankruptcy because it has
  been selling gas domestically for only a fraction of the import
  price.



  Ukraine’s economy contracted 1.1 percent in the first three
  months of 2014, a poor performance that puts the economy on track
  to slow 4 percent overall in 2014. This year, the hryvna has
  already slumped nearly 30 percent. The Central Bank, which is
  running dangerously low on foreign exchange reserves, may not be
  able to prop it up for much longer.



  The country is likely to default before the end of the year, Standard
  & Poor ratings agency says."
