"Ukrainian army ‘on full alert’, president admits east is beyond control

The Ukrainian army is on full alert due to the “threat of a Russian invasion,” Ukraine’s acting President Aleksandr Turchinov said after admitting that the government in Kiev cannot control the situation in the east of the country.

“I am going back to the real threat that Russia would unleash
  a continental war against Ukraine. Our armed forces have been put
  on full alert,” Turchinov told Wednesday a council of heads
  of Ukrainian regions in Kiev, as news agencies report.



  He called on the audience to speed up the creation of regional
  militias loyal to Kiev.
  “We must have the capability to move those units fast to
  support other regions against such a threat,” he stressed.



  Turchinov admitted that Kiev simply cannot get the situation in
  the rebellious eastern regions under control and reiterated
  earlier accusations, saying some people in law enforcement
  “are cooperating with terrorist organizations,” the name
  Kiev authorities use to refer to anti-government protesters who
  are seizing government buildings in eastern Ukraine.


“Our primary task is to prevent the spread of the terrorist
  threat to other regions of Ukraine,” he said.



  In contradiction to the previous moves of the government, which
  included raids on protester checkpoints and other demonstrations
  of force, Turchinov said “as we know from the experience of
  Maidan, the use of force is inefficient. That’s the situation we
  faced in the eastern regions.”


  Earlier on Tuesday, the acting president said in a televised
  address that the situation in the east of the country
  “demonstrated inaction, helplessness and sometimes
  treason” and pledged to sack many officers in eastern
  regions of Ukraine.



  Turchinov was elected a new speaker of the parliament and
  appointed by the MPs to act as the country’s acting president
  after the previous leader, Viktor Yanukovich, was ousted
  following violent street protests in February.
  
  The new authorities in Kiev are failing to deal with a wave of
  protests against them centered in the Donetsk Region of eastern
  Ukraine.



  Despite announcing an “anti-terrorist operation” and amassing a
  large number of troops and heavy weapons in the region, the
  national government has failed to prevent the continued seizures
  of buildings there and some other eastern regions of Ukraine.



  There are indications that Kiev does not have enough loyal troops
  to deliver on its promised protest crackdown. On several
  occasions the troops sent against activists simply defected,
  surrendering their weapons and armored vehicles."
