"Russia to train Iranian cosmonauts, build recon sats – report

?Russia and Iran have reportedly signed a secret deal on wide cooperation in space exploration, ranging from training Iranian cosmonauts in Russia to possible production of Earth observation and telecommunication satellites for Iran.


  The alleged deal was boosted by the West's sanctions targeting
  Russia in retaliation for its position on the Ukrainian crisis,
  Russian newspaper Izvestia reported.
  “A protocol on cooperation was signed on April 10 in Tehran
  after the fifth session of a Russian-Iranian work group on space
  cooperation,” the newspaper cites a source in Roscosmos,
  Russia's national space agency.
  
  The satellite part of the agreement is of greatest interest for
  Tehran. Russia pledged to provide sample images of earth gathered
  by its Resurs-DK and Resurs-P satellites, which allow taking
  photos with resolution up to 70 cm per pixel, Izvestia said
  citing the text of the protocol it obtained.
  
  Iranians plan to build domestic communication stations capable of
  receiving information from the Russian constellation of
  satellites.
  “Russia has assured the Iranian side that there is no
  insurmountable obstacle to the delivery of receiver stations to
  get satellite information from the Russian earth observation
  satellites to communication centers located in foreign
  nations,” the protocol reportedly says.
  
  Moscow may further create and launch reconnaissance satellites
  under a contract with Iran. Another contract may be negotiated
  with Iran for a telecommunication satellite, which would be
  launched to a Geo-synchronous orbit by Russia.
  
  Finally, Russia may provide its facilities and expertise to help
  Iran with its manned space exploration program.
  “The Iranian side is preparing a request for training of
  cosmonauts, to which the Russian side will respond with an offer
  in a matter of a month,” the document reportedly says.
  
  Ironically, if Russia does train Iranians to go to space, it
  would be done at the same site where NASA astronauts are trained
  before taking a trip to the International Space Station in a
  Russian Soyuz spacecraft, the newspaper notes. Putting Iranians
  and Americans with access to sensitive information in the same
  room could be a security challenge.
  
  The space deal comes just as the US decided to downgrade its
  relations with Russia in all spheres, including space exploration
  as part of its wider sanction effort. For instance, now Russian
  space companies cannot buy American electronic components, which
  were previously used in some Russian satellites.
  
  Iran getting access to earth observation satellites, which have
  both civilian and military applications, is bound to be opposed
  by Israel and Saudi Arabia, both regional opponents of Iran and
  close allies of the US.
  
  The prospect of Russian-Iranian space cooperation may be used by
  Moscow as a bargaining chip in negotiations with the US, believes
  space expert Ivan Moiseev.
  “In early 1990s we agreed not to sell to India rocket
  technologies. We made an engine for them instead, trained their
  specialists. The Americans in return allowed their satellites to
  be launched from our cosmodromes. Soon Proton rockets became one
  of world's most used vehicles,” he told the newspaper.
  
  Dmitry Paison, science director at Skolkovo's space cluster, says
  the deal as it is does not pose a significant threat to American
  interests.
  “In the protocol signed with the Iranian space agency I don't
  see any critical technology transfers. High-energy engines could
  be critical. Or atmosphere re-entry technologies. If those
  technologies were at the table, cooperation with Iran would be
  much more provocative,” he explained.
  
  Neither Iranian nor Russian space officials would comment on the
  reported deal."
