"Ukraine communist leader: Kiev labeled 7 mn people 'terrorists,' slaughtered civilians

The leader of Ukraine’s Communist Party says the Kiev regime killed peaceful civilians in the country's southeast, and is spreading lies about the real situation. The Ukrainian parliament is now seeking to expel communists and ban their activity.

“In Maripoul there was a slaughter of civilians, a mass
  murder. The number of those killed, first of all among peaceful
  civilians, is being concealed. A peaceful demonstration was shot
  at on May 9 and it was a show murder carried out by the current
  regime. There was a shooting of peaceful civilians, there was no
  one with weapons there. When you, using armored personnel carrier
  guns, killed a family of three, shot [them] in their kitchen,
  this is what you must be held accountable for; there is blood on
  your hands today,” Communist Party leader Pyotr Simonenko
  said, addressing Ukraine’s coup-appointed acting President
  Aleksandr Turchinov while speaking at parliament's conciliatory
  council on May 12.



  Simonenko, who is a presidential candidate, was referring to the
  armed assault of Kiev’s army on Mariupol’s police headquarters on
  May 9, when nine people were killed and another 49 were injured,
  including a freelance video journalist working for RT.


“In Mariupol [you] killed and shot down police department
  personnel only for refusal to comply with the criminal order to
  disperse protesters during the May 9 demonstration,”
  Simonenko said.



  Simonenko has called on Kiev to stop its “anti-terrorist
  operation,” saying it has now turned into a “terrorist
  operation against its own people.”

“You declared seven million people living in the Donetsk and
  Lugansk regions as 'terrorists.' They went out yesterday [to vote
  in the referendum], stood in lines since 6 a.m. to vote against
  Kiev rule, against this regime, against your policy,” he
  said.



  Ending the military operation in Ukraine's southeast is “the
  first of what the Communist Party demands.” It is also
  calling on Kiev to accept the results of the federalization
  referendum.


“Your policy resulted in Ukraine losing Crimea. Now your
  policy is leading to the point where seven million people of
  Ukraine, 30 percent of the country’s GDP, reject their future
  with Ukraine,” he stressed.



  According to Simonenko, the recent events in the cities of Odessa
  and Mariupol show that Kiev is trying to impose a
  “nationalist-fascist regime.”

“These events show that those who had another point of view
  were burned in a fire of inquisition at the Odessa Trade Unions
  House. They were burned alive! They were utterly beaten with
  metal rods when they tried to leave the building or jump out of
  windows. They were destroyed because they, Ukrainian citizens,
  had a different point of view,” he said.



  In response to Simonenko's accusations, coup-appointed acting
  President Aleksandr Turchinov heckled the Communist Party leader
  and accused him of lies and dissemination of false information.


You have neither conscience nor honor. Take your place,
  liar. I order you to stop your speech, Turchinov said,
  claiming the Kiev forces “protected” law enforcement in
  the city of Mariupol from unknown attackers who had tried to
  seize the police department building.



  Turchinov then asked the country’s Justice Ministry to look into
  the Communist Party’s alleged separatist activities and possibly
  ban the group.


“I would ask the Justice Ministry to look into this issue and
  if there is proof, to send the material to court and ban the
  Communist Party in Ukraine,” he said. “There is a lot of
  information and material in regard to the participation of the
  Communist Party’s representatives in the organization of
  terrorist and separatist activities,” Turchynov added.



  The Communist Party says there are no legal grounds for such a
  measure.



  The leader of the nationalist Svoboda party, presidential
  candidate Oleg Tyagnibok, has claimed that his party has
  collected documents that would allow the Justice Ministry to ban
  the Communist Party and the Party of Regions. The latter has also
  spoken against Kiev's actions in southeast Ukraine and called on
  officials to stop their “punitive” actions. In order to
  prevent Ukraine from splitting, Kiev should “sit down at a
  negotiation table,” the Party of Regions stressed.


“To listen to you Mr. Turchinov, as you said, only 30 percent
  of people of Donbass voted. I want to remind you that this is 2.5
  million people; they expressed their will. In any country in the
  world, 2.5 million people is a real power, which a government
  should listen to,” Party of Regions representative Nikolay
  Levchenko said at the Ukrainian parliament, Verkhovna Rada, while
  calling Kiev officials “neo-Nazis” and
  “bandits.”


  Simonenko also slammed the Victory Day speech of Kherson Governor
  Yury Odarchenko, who stated that Hitler tried to liberate
  Ukraine.


“At the Victory Day celebration, he says that Hitler did the
  right thing when he invaded our country to ‘liberate’ the people
  of Ukraine from communists. This was said by a person who is
  either an idiot or a thug,” Simonenko said.



  Odarchenko responded by saying he will sue Simonenko.


“I am suing you for a bald-faced lie, for slander, for
  cowardly and shameful propaganda,” Odarchenko told the
  Communist Party leader.



  Though Odarchenko says Simonenko's accusations are a lie, the
  moment when he said the statement about Hitler was caught on
  video.



  The Communist Party of Ukraine, which has been openly speaking
  against Kiev's coup-imposed regime since February, has faced
  increased confrontation since last week. On May 6, Ukrainian
  lawmakers accused the group of separatism and expelled it from a
  closed-door parliamentary hearing. It was the first time in
  Ukraine's post-Soviet history that such a decision had been made."
