"?UN-marked strike helicopter ‘used by Kiev against militia’ sparks scandal

The UN has voiced concerns over the apparent use of UN-marked helicopters by Kiev troops in their military operation against Donetsk regional militia. A video of a white-painted Mil Mi-24 strike helicopter with UN logo has emerged.


  When inquired about the United Nations’ stance on the use of
  peacekeeper-marked military hardware in non-peacekeeper
  operations, the office for UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s
  spokesperson said such use would violate UN rules.


“It is the responsibility of Troop Contributing Countries
  (TCCs) that provide Contingent Owned Equipment to peacekeeping
  missions to remove all logos and signage bearing the UN's name
  once such equipment has been repatriated to the home country or
  is no longer being used for official UN purposes,” the
  office told RT.



  It added that UN-marked aircraft can be used for missions tasked
  by the UN and that UN’s Departments of Peacekeeping Operations
  and Field Support is in contact with the Ukrainian authorities to
  clarify the issue.



  A video of a UN-marked Mil Mi-24 strike helicopter was published
  on Tuesday by LifeNews television. It said its correspondents
  covering Kiev’s military operation in the
  Donetsk Region took the video near Kramatorsk. LifeNews said at
  least three combat Mi-24 and one transport Mi-8 helicopters
  carrying UN colors were spotted in the area.



  Russia said it “certainly” is interested in finding out
  more on the situation.


“We certainly want to understand how it happened that the UN
  logo – a UN-painted helicopter – was used against protesters in
  the east and the south. The United Nations has already expressed
  it very deep concern,” Russia’s Foreign Minister said in an
  interview with Bloomberg.



  The Ukrainian Defense Ministry has denied the claims, saying that
  no UN-marked helicopters participated in its military operation
  in the southeast of the country.
  “The helicopters colored in white paint, which formerly took
  part in peacekeeping missions, are used. However, they only have
  emblems on them that confirm they belong to the armed forces of
  Ukraine,” the ministry’s press-service told
  Interfax-Ukraine.



  The Ukrainian military has provided equipment for several UN
  peacekeeping missions, particularly in the Democratic Republic of
  Congo."
