"Mission uncertain: Canadian planes leave for Eastern Europe to assist NATO

Six CF-18s and hundreds of Canadian Forces personnel left for Romania to help NATO forces in Eastern Europe amid uncertainty over the scope of the mission.


  It is the biggest deployment of military aircraft to Romania from
  another NATO member since the Ukraine crisis broke out.


There is a lot of uncertainty about what we're going to be
  doing over there, Lieutenant-General Yvan Blondin said at a
  press conference with Defense Minister Rob Nicholson in
  Bagotville, where the CF-18 Hornets are based.



  Blondin mentioned that the troops were going to perhaps
  participate in routine training exercises – but he is still not
  sure what the mission will involve.


We're not sure how long we're going to be staying, but we'll
  be staying until the government tells us it's time to come
  back, Blondin said.



  Six fighters have set off, accompanied by a C-17 cargo plane
  carrying spare parts, tools and mechanical equipment.



  The fighters first headed to Iceland before receiving further
  direction from Department of National Defense's Central Command
  on where they will be stationed in Romania, which borders
  Ukraine.



  All in all, up to 250 Canadian military personnel are set to be
  deployed for the NATO mission.



  Almost two weeks ago, it was announced that 6 RCAF CF-18 fighter
  jets would join the NATO mission in response to the Ukraine
  crisis.


We are sending out a message to Russia and we are reassuring
  our allies that we are taking steps and making a point consistent
  with what NATO has been saying, the actions so far are
  unacceptable by Russia and we are sending out a very clear
  message, Defense Minister Rob Nicholson told CBC News.



  Just a couple of days ago, UK and France deployed eight fighter
  jets to Lithuania and Poland to strengthen NATO air defenses.



  Polish and British air force contingents began patrolling the
  space over the Baltic States on Wednesday. The patrol is set to
  last for four months, reports ITAR-TASS. The contingent has
  around 100 military men, including technicians, doctors, support
  group, communications and other specialists.



  It followed hot war rhetoric a week ago by US Secretary of State
  John Kerry.


If Russia chooses the path of de-escalation, the
  international community – all of us – will welcome it. If Russia
  does not, the world will make sure that the cost for Russia will
  only grow. And as President Obama reiterated earlier today, we
  are ready to act, Kerry said.



  On Monday, Russia’s Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu called on his
  Pentagon counterpart Chuck Hagel to help cool the rhetoric over
  Ukraine.


“The Russian minister assessed the growth of the US and NATO
  forces’ activities in Eastern Europe as unprecedented. He also
  underlined the fact that those actions are accompanied by
  provocative statements by NATO’s Secretary General about the need
  to withhold Russia,” the statement from the Defense Ministry
  said."
