"West doing same to Ukraine as it did to Yugoslavia in 1990s

By blaming protesters in the east of Ukraine, the EU is encouraging radicals in Kiev and risks repeating what happened in Yugoslavia in the 1990s – a civil war followed by a bombing campaign – political analyst Aleksandar Pavic told RT.

RT:A lot of denouncements have been made by
  the US and the EU, stopping short of actually mentioning those
  responsible. Why?

Aleksandar Pavic: It’s because those are the
  people that are being sponsored by the West. It’s very simple;
  their radicals are able and allowed to do whatever they want.
  When it comes to unarmed citizens trying to just protect their
  equal rights from the junta in Kiev, then those are the ones who
  are supposedly instigating the violence. It’s just a matter of
  Western clients going unpunished and they are actually getting
  support from the West, which is a scandal.


RT:The EU and the US clearly blame Moscow
  for steering it, but why are they not coming up with any
  proof?

AP: They don’t have proof, but we have proof
  that the West is instigating this. And just the other day,
  Catherine Ashton, the EU’s commissioner for foreign policy,
  pretty much gave a green light to the extremists from Kiev. She
  pretty much said they had a right to establish law and order
  within the borders of the country. I would say that the EU has
  blood on its hands, especially Catherine Ashton. It’s the same
  thing they did in Yugoslavia in the 90s, when they started
  encouraging radicals, extremists, secessionists. They could do no
  wrong. On the other hand, legal authorities in Yugoslavia could
  do no right. Well it’s almost the same thing, but the other way
  around now in Ukraine.


RT:On the one hand, they are backing Kiev’s
  military crackdown in the east. On the other hand, they are
  calling for calm. How do those two things go together?

AP: They call for calm, but they call for calm
  from the other side. They call for calm from people who actually
  just want the federalization of Ukraine. On the other hand,
  they’re encouraging extremists from the Right Sector who have
  taken up arms, probably being armed and advised by the West right
  now. They are giving them the green light. So this makes sense
  from the Western view point. It’s not at all fair, it’s not
  balanced, and it’s actually a criminal sort of meddling in the
  internal affairs of a country. They are instigating civil war
  right now.


RT:How worried are you about the situation?
  Is there any middle ground to be gained at this point, as we head
  towards these elections on May 25? On the one hand, Russia does
  not accept the legitimacy of the interim government in Kiev, but
  that government sees backing from the West. Is anyone going to
  see eye to eye here? Or do you think the situation is going to
  get worse?

AP: I’m very worried about the situation. I’m
  seeing a repeat of the events of 20 years ago when the West made
  sure that no peace settlement was reached until it served its own
  interests. Instead of having peace in Yugoslavia as early as
  1991, we had four years of bloody civil war until 1995, when the
  West got what it wanted. And then it opened up a new front again
  in 1999, with bombing Yugoslavia. They supported terrorists in
  Kosovo; they’re supporting them today. So as long as the West
  keeps doing that, and as long as we see the same people running
  things in Washington and Brussels, in London and Berlin – today
  as then – I don’t expect any good news anytime soon,
  unfortunately.


RT:Do you think the elections planned for
  May 25 will help calm the situation?

AP: Absolutely not. This cannot be a regular
  election under any circumstances, even if a ceasefire was somehow
  reached in the next couple of days; there’s no trust within the
  country anymore. It will take quite a while for that trust to be
  instituted. So on May 25 to have real elections – it will be a
  joke.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
