"Russian rights activists urge moratorium on Ukrainian information wars

As Ukraine is facing a new and harsher stage in its standoff, all conflicting parties must concentrate on protecting ordinary citizens and stop information wars that prevent open dialogue, reads a fresh report from the Moscow Human Rights Bureau.


  The document was published on Wednesday by the head of the NGO, a
  member of the Presidential Human Rights Council, Aleksandr Brod.
  According to the Russian activist, the Ukrainian crisis was
  entering a new stage, characterized by an increase in violence
  and growing alienation of the eastern and southeastern regions of
  the country.



  “It is extremely important for all sides to actualize the
  human rights dimension. Political ambitions must not overshadow
  the sufferings of ordinary people who find themselves between the
  millstones of the standoff,” the activists claimed.



  The Russian NGO also urged all participants in the Ukrainian
  conflict to agree on an information behavior code and “declare a
  moratorium on information wars that stand in the way of
  establishing a valid dialogue.”



  The report also states that it is necessary to resume the Geneva
  talks on Ukraine and make them permanent, create a reliable
  negotiations space between Kiev and the southeastern regions and
  attract civil society to the work of settling the conflict.



  The Moscow Human Right Bureau is a leading Russian NGO
  specializing in legal aid to victims of rights abuse and on daily
  monitoring of HR violations and various manifestations of
  xenophobia.



  Earlier this week, Russia’s Lower House addressed world
  parliaments and inter-parliamentary groups and blamed the
  coup-appointed authorities in Kiev for the ongoing escalation of
  the conflict, and suggested a new international contact group on
  the basis of PACE. This would help stop the armed standoff in
  Ukraine and prevent the looming humanitarian disaster in the
  country.



  Earlier in May, the Russian Foreign Ministry published a “White
  Book” report on numerous human rights violations by the Kiev
  authorities and their supporters, focusing on facts which the
  international community and key international human rights bodies
  have not shown proper and impartial attention to."
