"'It’s a dead end': German FM joins chorus of discontent over Russia sanctions rhetoric

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier has called for restraint in imposing new sanctions on Russia, as politicians, businesses and the general public in Germany grow ever more skeptical of putting more pressure on Moscow.


  Steinmeier defended the already imposed sanctions against Russia,
  but said that he still preferred cooperation instead of
  confrontation with Moscow, according to a Saturday
  interview with Th?ringische Landeszeitung.
  
  “We must avoid falling into an automatic [sanctions] mode,
  which leads only to a dead end and leaves no more policy
  options,” Steinmeier said.
  
  The comment was made the same day Ukraine's acting Foreign
  Minister Andriy Deshchytsia appealed for toughening sanctions,
  including imposing “preventive” ones, against Russia in
  an interview to another German newspaper, Die Welt.
  
  The idea of slapping Moscow with any further restrictions appears
  to be lacking popular support in Germany. That was felt earlier
  this week in Berlin when Chancellor Angela Merkel, attending her
  party’s campaign event, was booed by a rally of protesters
  holding signs, which read 'Europe is strong only with
  Russia' or 'Stop the Nazis in Ukraine.'



  German business is also unhappy with the attempts to hit Moscow
  hard with the sanctions. A confidential letter to the German
  government from the German-Russian chamber of foreign trade,
  which was leaked to Reuters by an official in Berlin warns of the
  boomerang effect the sanctions would have on the European
  economy.



  Deeper economic sanctions would lead to a situation where
  contracts would increasingly be given to domestic firms, projects
  would be suspended or delayed by the Russian side, and Russian
  industry and politicians would turn to Asia, in particular
  China, the letter reads.
  
  The plea to the government also says the loss of market share for
  German and European firms, resulting from sanctions, would be
  long-term and sustained, causing irreparable
  damage to Germany's competitive position.



  More than 6,000 German firms are doing business in Russia and
  trade between the two countries accounts for 300,000 jobs in
  Germany.
  
  The economic risks have so far not stopped Merkel from
  threatening Russia with more sanctions. She has been criticized
  for this by her predecessors, ex-chancellors Gerhard Schroeder
  and Helmut Schmidt.
  
  Schmidt slammed the EU bureaucrats on Friday, accusing them of
  “megalomania” and attempts at “annexing
  Ukraine.” He told the Bild Daily that the officials and
  bureaucrats in Brussels ... are confronting Ukraine with the
  apparent necessity of having to choose between West and
  East.
  
  German Economy Minister and Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel shared
  the opinion on Wednesday. While the politician laid the major
  portion of blame for the Ukraine crisis on Russia, he also
  admitted flaws in the EU’s policy.



  It was certainly not smart to create the impression in
  Ukraine that it had to decide between Russia and the EU,
  Gabriel said, as cited by Reuters.
  
  They might be multiplying, but voices of discontent over EU’s
  policy on Russia are so far unlikely to stop Brussels' sanctions
  rhetoric, according to director of a Paris-based think tank, the
  Institute of Democracy and Cooperation, John Laughland.
  
  “The West is engaged in all-out ideological and geopolitical
  struggle with Russia, which it intends to win,” Laughland
  told RT. “There are all sorts of things Europe can do. It can
  ratchet up what it’s already done. It can publish longer lists of
  people who are subject to personal sanctions. It will definitely
  abandon the visa liberalization program, which Russia has been
  requesting for nearly a decade now. And it can even reduce
  economic exchanges. Russia should not be under any illusions –
  the European elites are prepared to cut off their nose to spite
  their face. In other words, they are prepared to undergo or make
  other people undergo severe economic pain in order to justify and
  entrench their ideological hostility to Russia.”"
