"?New secret $69 mn Gitmo camp for ‘high-value’ detainees sought by Congress

US House Republicans have advanced funding for a new secret prison at Guantanamo to hold suspects of the 9/11 attacks. The project has long been called for by the US Southern Command despite a lack of support from the Obama administration.


  The GOP-led House Armed Services Committee allocated $69 million
  for a new “high-value detainee complex” in its spending
  bill this week. The legislation calls for $93 million for new
  construction at the US military prison camps at Guantanamo, the
  Miami Herald reported.



  The new facility to replace the clandestine Camp 7 must survive
  the congressional budgeting process – in this case, the National
  Defense Authorization Bill – as well as a White House that has
  blocked efforts to begin new projects at the camps holding over
  150 ‘war-on-terror’ prisoners.



  Camp 7, run by a secret US Army unit called Task Force Platinum,
  is the holding area for 15 CIA-captured prisoners, including six
  men on trial for the September 11, 2001 attacks
  in the US. This includes the supposed mastermind of those
  attacks, Khalid Sheik Mohammed, as well as four of his alleged
  accomplices and the alleged plotter of the 2000 suicide bombing
  of the USS Cole destroyer, Abd al Rahim al Nashiri. These
  detainees were sent to Camp 7 in 2006 after spending time held in
  secret CIA “black site” prisons around the world.



  The funding passed by the committee also bars the transfer of any
  Guantanamo prisoner to the United States for trial or detention,
  long a point of contention for the presidential administrations
  of both Barack Obama and George W. Bush.



  Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX), the second-ranking Republican on the
  committee, said the US Army had requested more funding to replace
  a facility from Congress a year ago.


“The one they have now is falling apart,” Thornberry
  said at the committee meeting where funding was approved. The
  military considers all aspects of Camp 7 classified, including
  its costs, when it was built, or by whom.



  Thornberry, citing the “risk” posed to American
  personnel at Camp 7, read from the Army communiqu? during the
  committee meeting:


“Existing facilities have far exceeded their service life
  expectancy and are deteriorating rapidly. The inefficiencies
  experienced in proper separation, seclusion and control of the
  occupants put Joint Task Force Guantanamo staff at risk ... If
  this project is not funded detainees will continue to be housed
  in facilities that will degrade to the point of risking failure
  to meet operational, life and health-safety standards.”


  Marine Gen. John F. Kelly, commander of the US Southern Command
  that runs Guantanamo’s detention center, has lobbied for $49
  million for a new jail, yet the US Defense Department has thus
  far declined to add the building project to its 2015 budget
  proposal. The Defense Department has said it would reinforce the
  older building rather than construct a new one.



  Kelly has called the camp’s failing facility “increasingly
  unsustainable because of drainage and foundation issues.”


  Navy Cmdr. John Filostrat, public affairs officer at Guantanamo,
  would not expand on what risks the building poses to Task Force
  Platinum troops.


“We don't talk about Camp 7 operations,” he told the
  Herald by email.



  Committee Democrats argued against the funding and provision that
  bars prisoners from seeing detention or trial in the US.


“In this country right now we already hold literally
  hundreds, if not thousands, of terrorists, mass murderers,
  pedophiles, incredibly dangerous people,” said ranking
  Democrat on the committee, Rep. Adam Smith (WA), advocating for
  holding detainees in US prisons."
