"Germany drops Snowden’s invite to testify on NSA spying in person

Germany will not be inviting whistleblower Edward Snowden to testify in front of a parliamentary committee which investigates US spying tactics of EU leaders and nationals, a German MP said on Thursday.


  A member of the investigative committee from Chancellor Angela
  Merkel’s ruling Christian Democratic Union (CDU) said in a
  statement that the government opposes Snowden testifying in the
  case regarding the National Security Agency (NSA)'s activities in
  Germany.


The federal government has never been in any doubt that
  there is no legal basis for Mr. Snowden to travel to
  Germany, Roderich Kiesewetter of the CDU said in a
  statement, as quoted by The Wall Street Journal.



  His statement came in response to a media report that accused the
  government of blocking Snowden’s visit to Germany because of
  diplomatic reasons.



  The report published earlier on Thursday by S?ddeutsche Zeitung
  said that a personal invitation to the former NSA contractor and
  leaker would run counter to the political interests of the
  Federal Republic and put a grave and permanent
  strain on US-German relations.



  German opposition members from the Left and Green party who are
  involved in the investigation believe that Snowden is a key
  witness and should testify in person. But the CDU believes a
  written questionnaire would suffice.



  The whistleblower is currenty in Russia under temporary asylum.
  He asked for asylum in Germany last summer, but his application
  was rejected because he didn't file it from German soil. If
  Snowden would have been invited to testify, he could have met the
  requirements.



  Meanwhile, opposition members have slammed Merkel for being
  cowardly towards the US.


Merkel is displaying cowardice towards our ally
  America, said Green party leader Simone Peter, as quoted by
  the Guardian. We owe the Americans nothing in this respect.
  The government must at least make a serious effort to safely
  bring Snowden to Germany and let him give evidence here. But
  Merkel doesn't want that.


  Merkel’s office said on Tuesday that the chancellor will raise
  the NSA surveillance issue during her upcoming visit to the US.
  She will meet with President Barack Obama on Friday.



  Clemense Binninger, chair of the investigative committee,
  believes that getting at least some response from the Americans
  would be “an important step forward to restoring trust,”
  Deutsche Welle reported in April.



  Snowden's revelations regarding US spying on Germany continue to
  pour in. Der Spiegel recently published additional leaked data,
  including information that the NSA compiled a comprehensive
  dossier on Merkel, which included over 300 intelligence reports."
