"Public activists to sue Kiev regime in European rights court

Russia’s public chamber has initiated a petition aimed at bringing the current Kiev authorities to account for creating the conditions that led to mass murder of civilian protesters in Odessa.


  One of the Public Chamber members, the head of the Civil Control
  NGO protecting the voters’ rights, Georgiy Fyodorov, has said
  that the group has already prepared a lawsuit against the
  Ukrainian authorities and intend to submit it to the European
  Court of Human Rights. In it they demand the Ukrainian leaders
  answer for their actions and their complicity be established in
  the attacks that killed dozens of peaceful anti-Maidan
  protesters in Odessa as well as other attacks against civilian
  protesters in eastern and south-eastern Ukraine.



  The NGO also posted a petition on the internet in support of the
  initiative and it had gathered several thousands of signatures by
  Monday, May 5.



  “Today, the rights of the bigger part of the Ukrainian
  population are not protected by anyone in this state. People get
  kidnapped and transported to undisclosed locations without any
  charges, people get robbed and killed without any prosecution for
  the criminals. The agencies responsible for the public order
  prefer not to act. The self-appointed government is instigating
  ethnic hatred and promoting the genocide of its own people,”
  the petition reads.



  Another Public Chamber member – Maksim Grigoryev- has told
  reporters that he had already addressed the United Nations Human
  Rights Council and the OSCE monitoring mission with requests to
  conduct a more thorough investigation into the Odessa tragedy, as
  well as other recent Ukrainian events.



  Grigoryev chairs the non-commercial Foundation for Problems of
  Democracy and he said that his group was preparing a report
  dedicated to Ukraine. “It is right to address the European
  Human Rights Court even though I do not expect this move to bring
  any feasible results. After the Odessa massacre the statements of
  UN and OSCE representatives were quite soft, but after some time
  the sobriety will come, like it happened with the Georgia war of
  2008 and Western nations will understand that the people that
  they are supporting now are typical neo-Nazi groups,
  discriminating against people by their ethnicity and ready for
  any actions. We should lodge our complaints now so that the West
  understands that the situation is very serious,” the
  activist said.



  On Monday, Russia’s Foreign Ministry released an extensive report on human rights violations in
  Ukraine, and forwarded a copy of the document to President
  Vladimir Putin.The report, dubbed the ‘White Book’, was made on
  the basis of reports of Russian, Ukrainian and foreign mass media
  as well as interviews of victims by Russian NGOs. It describes
  the abuse of law, use of torture, inhuman treatment and other
  Human Rights violations in Ukraine from the end of November 2013
  to the end of March 2014.



  According to the authors, the aim of the document is “to
  focus on facts which the international community and key
  international human rights bodies have not shown proper and
  impartial attention to.”"
