"Drone, US jet narrowly avoided air disaster earlier this year

An unmanned aerial vehicle nearly collided with a small US commercial flight in March in the skies above Florida, a Federal Aviation Administration official has said, highlighting a lingering concern about drones interfering with other aviation.


  The flight was a small, 50-seat express flight operated by
  American Airlines flying approximately 2,300 feet above
  Tallahassee Regional Airport on the Florida panhandle. Jim
  Williams, the head of the FAA’s unmanned aircraft office, told a
  conference of drone enthusiasts Thursday that the flight’s pilot
  and crew witnesses a camouflaged-painted UAV skim by the
  aircraft, narrowly avoiding what could have been trouble for all
  on board the flight.



  “He reported what appeared to be a small, remotely piloted
  aircraft at approximately 2,300 feet in the air,” Williams
  told the audience at the Small Unmanned Systems Business
  Exposition. “The airline pilot said that he thought the
  [drone] was so close to his jet that he was sure he had collided
  with it.”


The Wall Street Journal was the first to
  report the story Friday, adding that current guidelines stipulate
  that manned aircraft should be no closer than 1,000 feet together
  vertically and several miles apart laterally.



  Private drone pilots who operate their craft at such a height
  could face a $10,000 fine. The American Airlines pilot described
  the UAS as a fixed-wing aircraft that was more similar to a model
  than a quadcopter more frequently associated with commercial
  drone use in the future. The identity of the pilot in this case
  is still unknown.



  An inspection of the plane found no damage or evidence that there
  was a collision.



  “The risk for a small (drone) to be ingested into a passenger
  airline engine is very real,” Williams went on. “Imagine
  a metal-and-plastic object, especially that big lithium battery,
  going into a high-speed turbine engine. The results could be
  catastrophic.”



  The incident appears to be the first time that a drone has been
  reported flying so close to a commercial jet, although a flight
  making its approach to John F. Kennedy International Airport in
  New York City last year reported seeing a drone flying within 200
  feet.



  Observers have compared the potential results to a collision with
  the 2009 Miracle on the Hudson, in which a flock of geese flew
  into the engine of a US Airways flight and forced the pilot to
  conduct an emergency landing on the water.



  The FAA did not return a request for comment from multiple
  outlets, although American Airlines spokesman Matt Miller told
  USA Today the near-miss is currently under
  investigation.



  “The safety of our passengers and crew is top priority,”
  he said. “Any information will be shared with the FAA as part
  of our normal procedures, and we will not comment on any matter
  that may be under investigation.”



  Congressional lawmakers frustrated by the FAA’s inaction on
  updating its stance on commercial and private drones, have given
  the regulatory agency a September 2015 deadline to come up with
  new guidelines that will clear up questions that still exist in
  the public and aviation industry.



  Events like the one in question are only expected to become more
  frequent as hobbyists and businesses alike explore new ways of
  transport. Gretchen West, executive vice president for drone
  lobby group Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems
  International, told the Wall Street Journal’s Jack Niclas the
  confusion must be cleared up soon.



  “A lot of people already fly [drones] without rules and
  regulation. It’s almost a free for all,” she said, adding
  that the FAA “is painting a picture that this technology
  could threaten safety, but that goes back to the FAA. They have
  to come up with the rules to create a safe environment.”"
