"?Goliath vs. Goliath: US court backs Monsanto against DuPont in Roundup patent war

In the creation of its mass-distributed seed unit Pioneer, DuPont illegally employed technology developed by fellow agrochemical giant Monsanto, a US federal appeals court has ruled, affirming sanctions against DuPont.


  The US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit let a lower court
  decision stand on Friday, agreeing that DuPont violated
  Monsanto’s licensed seed technology, known as Roundup Ready, when
  it was developing its own seed to be tolerant of powerful,
  commonly-used herbicides.



  Monsanto’s Roundup Ready seeds are tailored to be able to
  withstand certain volumes of glyphosate-based herbicide, which
  Monsanto also makes. The companies are two of the top
  agribusiness titans competing for dominance through, among other
  products, so-called high-yield crops, most of which are genetically-modified
  organisms.



  The appeals court agreed with a 2012 decision by the US District
  Court in St. Louis, finding that DuPont had abused the
  judicial process and acted in bad faith,” while adding that
  DuPont’s actions were not considered “fraud on the
  court,” Reuters reported.



  The court’s ruling upholds sanctions against DuPont, though
  Friday’s ruling did not outline any specifics. Covering
  Monsanto’s attorney fees are at least part of the deal, according
  to Reuters.


We are disappointed in the decision reached by the Federal
  Circuit today in the now-concluded litigation with
  Monsanto, said DuPont spokesman Dan Turner. It is
  important to note, however, that the appellate panel agreed with
  our long-standing position that we did not commit fraud on the
  court.

“The decision speaks for itself, said Monsanto
  spokesman Thomas Helscher in a brief comment about the ruling.



  Following the 2012 district court decision, DuPont was order to
  pay Monsanto $1 billion in damages for violating a 2002
  licensing agreement between the companies. The two agribusiness
  behemoths struck a deal, in which DuPont paid Monsanto $1.75
  billion as part of a new licensing agreement that threw out the
  jury award from 2012.



  The agreement allowed DuPont to appeal the sanctions, which led
  to Friday’s decision.



  Monsanto sued DuPont in May 2009, claiming DuPont used its
  Roundup Ready seed trait without licensing permission. It claimed
  DuPont, while developing Pioneer, broke the agreement when it
  attempted to build on a patent owned by Monsanto.



  DuPont says Monsanto fraudulently obtained the patent, leaving it
  invalid. Dupont also defending itself by asserting that it did
  not understand it could not “stack” its own seed trait
  on that of Monsanto’s Roundup Ready trait.



  Yet emails revealed in the case showed DuPont lawyers advised the
  company that the licensing pact did not allow for the use of
  Monsanto’s technology. For the misrepresentation, Monsanto
  demanded the court apply the sanctions against DuPont.



  Monsanto’s Roundup Ready seed technology was introduced in 1996
  to withstand dousing of its glyphosate herbicide, Roundup.


Sales for the top four agrochemical and
  biotech corporations – Monsanto, DuPont, Dow Chemical, and
  Syngenta – have gone up from $60.1 billion in 2004 to $119.3
  billion in 2012.



  Dow is currently pushing for US government approval of its own
  potent – and quite controversial – herbicide to protect its own
  seeds.



  The US Environmental Protection Agency is considering a proposal for mass use of Dow’s
  herbicide 2,4-D on the company’s genetically-engineered corn and
  soybeans, dubbed by critics as ‘Agent Orange’ crops for their
  relation to the potent chemical best known for killing hundreds
  of thousands of people during the US war in Vietnam. Dow’s GE
  crops were developed to withstand several herbicides, including
  2,4-D and Roundup."
