"Gazprom to cut supplies to Ukraine from June if no prepayment

If Kiev does not pay its gas bills by June 2, exports to Ukraine will be halted the next day, Gazprom CEO Aleksey Miller said. Russian PM Dmitry Medvedev meanwhile urged demanding advanced payment from Kiev as early as Tuesday.


  Miller told Medvedev on Monday that Gazprom will issue a
  preliminary June bill to Ukraine’s Naftogaz on May 13. According
  to Miller, Kiev already owes the company more than $3.5 billion, which compares to Gazprom’s annual gas
  supply to Poland.


“In case Ukraine does not pay for the June supplies, Gazprom
  will notify the Ukrainian side, before 10am on June 3, and the
  volume of gas will be supplied to Ukraine in accordance with the
  advanced payment,” Miller said.



  He added that if Kiev pays for zero cubic meters of gas, it will
  receive none.



  Medvedev said that it is “time to stop nursing” Ukraine,
  urging Miller to switch to advance payment as early as Tuesday.
  He noted that Kiev has the money needed to pay back its debts.


“They have the opportunity to pay back before the end of May,
  to pay the needed sum or at least some part of it, in order to
  start related negotiations with Gazprom to demonstrate their
  willingness to settle the debts. So far, we have not seen see any
  willingness from the Ukrainian side, which is regrettable,”
  Medvedev said, as quoted by Interfax.



  Kiev had already received the first part of the International Monetary Fund
  (IMF) loan, the Russian prime minister said.



  Russian energy minister, Aleksandr Novak, reminded that the sum
  received by Kiev from the IMF amounts to $3.2 billion of the
  total $17.1 billion agreed.



  What’s more, there are “alarming” signals coming from
  Kiev’s authorities that they won’t guarantee delivery of Russian gas to Europe,
  the minister said.


“The Ukrainian energy minister, Yury Prodan, conveyed
  alarming information saying that Ukraine does not guarantee gas
  injections to underground storages in the summer period… which
  means they do not guarantee the transit of gas to European
  countries due to the lack of resources – and the unwillingness to
  solve the problem in principle,” Novak said.



  The EU, which has been supporting the Kiev regime, should
  convince them to start paying for gas, Medvedev said.


“We have the right to expect that our European partners will
  send some signals to the Ukrainian authorities about the debts
  that have to be repaid,” the Russian PM said.



  Currently, as much as 50 percent of Russian gas supplied to
  Europe passes through Ukraine and around 30 percent of Europe’s
  energy is imported from Russia, with some EU countries subject to
  complete dependence on Russian gas.



  Under the present terms, Kiev has to pay $485 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas. The price tag
  was raised in April from $268.50, after Russia withdrew all sorts
  of discounts for Ukraine.



  In April, Gazprom stopped the $100 discount it used to give Kiev
  under the Kharkov Agreement on leasing the Crimean port of
  Sevastopol to station the Black Sea Fleet, which is now part of
  Russia.



  Kiev has rejected the new price as “politically
  motivated” and has been refusing to pay back the debt until
  Gazprom cancels the “unjustified and unacceptable hike.”



  While Kiev’s authorities claim the new gas prices are much higher
  than any other European countries have to pay, it was revealed
  that Lithuania, for instance, had been paying Gazprom $485 per
  thousand cubic meters of gas until last week."
