"Ukraine's failure to pay gas debt may cut gas supply to Europe - Russia’s energy minister

Ukraine’s growing gas debt may lead to the failure of the country’s transit obligations and the reduction of gas supplies to south-eastern Europe, said the Russian Energy Ministry.


  Officials from Russia, including Energy Minister Alexander Novak
  and Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller, and officials from
  Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Moldova held talks in Moscow on
  Saturday.
  
  The meeting, also attended by officials from the Russian Ministry
  of Economic Development and the Finance Ministry, was held in the
  form of consultations on the security of gas transit through
  Ukraine.
  
  All sides expressed deep concern about Ukraine’s growing debt,
  Novak told journalists.
  “Currently Ukraine’s debt is US$2.238 billion, this [figure]
  does not include gas deliveries made in April,” Novak noted.
  “The debt will rise 1.3 billion for the April
  deliveries.”
  Ukraine’s debt may lead to a situation where not enough gas will
  be pumped into Ukrainian underground storage facilities, which
  may create the risk of non-performance by Ukraine of its transit
  obligations and of undersupply of gas to Southeastern Europe, the
  ministry said.
  
  In turn the parties discussed the importance of gas
  transportation projects designed to reduce transit risks for
  European consumers, primarily the South Stream project.
  “Today, only the South Stream project can give Europe real
  additional guarantees of energy security, said Miller on
  Friday.
  
  Russia also discussed with the participants the efforts to
  organize negotiations with the European Commission and Ukraine on
  how to deal with Kiev's failure to pay for gas.
  
  Novak said that the talks on the IMF stabilization loan will soon
  be held. The use of a portion of the IMF loan to repay the debt
  for previous gas supplies will be discussed there he added.



  Russia said it hopes the EU “will take measures towards the
  speediest disbursement of financial aid to Ukraine by European
  financial institutions, which will be used, among other things,
  for ensuring Naftogaz of Ukraine's timely payments for natural
  gas supplies from Gazprom, the ministry said.
  
  The ministry believes this will help to prevent unauthorized
  siphoning of gas from transit in Ukraine and strengthen Europe's
  energy security.



  Gazprom’s $45 billion South Stream project is due to partially
  open in 2015 and reach full capacity in 2018. It will deliver 64
  billion cubic meters of gas to Europe, running through EU
  countries Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, and soon to be EU
  member Serbia. The line connects Russia to Europe via the Black
  Sea and will supply Europe with 15 percent of its gas needs."
