"Russia ‘open’ to gas price negotiations with Ukraine, if they start to repay debt

Russia will continue gas price negotiations with Ukraine on the condition that the country begins to pay off its massive $3.5 billion debt to Gazprom, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told journalists on Wednesday.


  Gazprom, Russia’s largest natural gas producer, has currently
  priced Ukrainian gas at $485 per 1,000 cubic meters, after
  canceling two discounts. Kiev is complaining that the new price
  doesn’t reflect market conditions and is politically motivated.


Of course it is possible. It's a question for
  negotiations,” the Prime Minister said in a question and
  answer session with reporters.


“We hope our European friends will force Ukraine to begin to
  pay ‘Gazprom’ using a portion of the money it has received,”
  Medvedev said, in reference to the $3.2 billion tranche of aid it received from
  the International Monetary Fund on May 7.



  Aside from paying off Gazprom, Ukraine has other billions in debt
  obligations, as well as a nearly empty treasury and an ailing
  currency it needs to save.



  Due to Ukraine’s late payment record, Gazprom has switched
  supplies to prepayment and sent Naftogaz, Ukraine’s national oil and gas
  company, a $1.66 billion bill that must be paid by June 2, or
  risk a shut off.


Nobody ever said: hand over $4 billion straight away, rather
  [we said] show that you are ready to act … If they pay part of
  it, that's the minimum requirement for resuming talks,
  Medvedev told reporters.



  Earlier it was reported Kiev would use some of its IMF money to
  start repaying Gazprom, but government officials haven’t made any
  concrete announcements about how the first tranche will be
  allocated



  European Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger and Russian
  Energy Minister Dmitry Kozak will meet on May 19 in Berlin to
  discuss Ukrainian energy issues further. Oettinger has been a
  main player in brokering a deal between the two embittered
  nations, but so far negotiations have failed to produce any results.



  Europe sources about one third of its total energy supply from
  Russia, 50 percent of which flows through Ukraine.



  The Ukraine crisis has brought to light the impact shifting
  geopolitics are having on the global energy market. Europe
  continues to call for more energy independence from Russia, the
  US is toying with the idea of exporting shale gas, and Moscow and
  Beijing look poised to sign a landmark 30-year gas purchase
  agreement that would supply 38 billion cubic meters to China a
  year starting in 2018.



  Russia will not say “no” to any partners in the energy sector,
  Prime Minister Medvedev said on Thursday at the International
  Energy Forum in Moscow.


“For Russia it is important to tell all of our partners -
  both Asian and European - that we will not refuse or say ‘no’ to
  anyone,” Medvedev said.



  The Prime Minister said that Russia accounts for 20 percent of
  energy in the world."
