"Dragging Ukraine into NATO negative for European security - Lavrov

The seeds of the ongoing turmoil in Ukraine were sown back in April 2008, when NATO suggested that Ukraine and Georgia should move closer to the alliance, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said.

“The seeds for the current crisis were sown in 2008 in April
  during the NATO summit in Bucharest, when NATO leaders stated in
  a declaration that Georgia and Ukraine would be in NATO,”
  the senior Russian diplomat told Bloomberg in an interview.



  He said that the Georgian president at the time, Mikhail
  Saakasvhili, thought the statement gave him a license to resolve
  the problem of Georgia’s breakaway region, South Ossetia, by
  force and he launched an invasion.


“He was certainly motivated by this NATO promise,”
  Lavrov stressed.



  Georgia or Ukraine becoming part of NATO would be a critical
  threat to Russia’s national security, Lavrov explained, and
  something that Russia would simply not accept.
  “The attempts to draw Ukraine into NATO would be negative for
  the entire system of European security and we would be
  categorically against it,” he said.



  While Russia would not object to Ukraine joining the EU, provided
  that Ukrainians comprehend and accept fully the economic
  repercussions this would bring, changing Ukraine’s neutral
  military status is out of the question for Moscow.



  This is especially true considering NATO’s record of breaking its
  promises not to advance its military assets towards Russian
  borders, Lavrov said.



  ‘Washington won’t let Europe off the leash’



  Russia sees that Washington is playing a large part in the
  Ukrainian conflict and is concerned with reports that the US
  impact of the events may be quite sinister.



  There are reports of US private military companies operating in
  Ukraine and even of a senior member of the radical nationalist
  Right Sector movement visiting America for consultations with US
  State Department’s top diplomat for Europe, Victoria Nuland.
  Lavrov said Moscow asked for official comments of such serious
  allegations from Washington, but none came so far.



  Overall, the US is apparently content with its global position,
  the minister suggested.


“The real aim of the United States is not to let Europeans to
  go on their own, not to let NATO lose the purpose of its
  existence and to keep Europe on a short leash,” Lavrov said.



  Ukraine ‘as close to civil war as it can get’



  Russia sees the ongoing Ukrainian turmoil in gloom colors.


“Ukrainians are killing Ukrainians. I believe it is as close
  to a civil war as it can get,” Lavrov explained, referring
  to Kiev’s military operation being conducted in the Donetsk
  Region.



  The violence and Kiev’s refusal to stop it are against the Geneva
  agreement, which Ukraine signed together with Russia, the EU and
  US. It casts doubt over the legitimacy of the presidential
  election scheduled for May 25, the Russian minister believes.


“In the east of Ukraine there is a real war with heavy
  weapons shot. If this is something conducive to free and fair
  elections, then I don’t understand something in freedom and
  fairness,” he commented.



  The use of force by Kiev or pro-Kiev militias against Ukrainians
  defying its rule is what Russia was concerned with in the first
  place. Fears of such violence prompted President Vladimir Putin
  to ask the Russian parliament for a mandate to use Russian troops
  to prevent possible bloodshed.



  Russian troops assisted the Crimean self-defense force, when
  residents of the peninsula rebelled against Kiev and took up arms
  to defend themselves, Lavrov said. But Moscow hopes a similar
  move will not be necessary to protect other Ukrainian regions
  opposing the post-coup government.


“We don’t have any intention to send any troops
  anywhere,” the minister stressed.



  Iran-style sanctions against Russia could damage US



  Lavrov said that unilateral Western sanctions, if Washington and
  its allies chose to act against Russia the way they did with
  Iran, would hurt the Russian economy to a degree, but it would
  also hurt the West as well. And not only Europe, which has strong
  trade ties with Russia, but possibly the US as well.


“If the West for the sake of revenge is ready to sacrifice
  its reputation as a reliable partner for the entire world economy
  and for the entire world financial system, if the United States
  is prepared to sacrifice its reputation as the holder of the key
  reserve currency, then it’s up to them to decide,” he said.



  This path would lead to other nations seeking ways to limit
  America’s leverage on them, Lavrov believes.


“If the next morning somebody in Washington woke up in a bad
  mood and decided to start a coup elsewhere – not in Ukraine, but
  in Latin America, in their own backyard as they perceive it –
  those people must be prepared for this situation,” he said."
