"Kiev proclaims post-referendum Donetsk, Lugansk regions ‘terrorist organizations’

New authorities in post-coup Kiev have listed the self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Lugansk as terrorist organizations. The two regions proclaimed themselves sovereign states after the controversial May 11 referendums.

“The two so-called 'people’s republics' in Donetsk and
  Lugansk regions are terrorist organizations, which have a clear
  hierarchy, financing, and channels of weapons supplies,”
  Ukraine’s deputy prosecutor general, Nikolay Golomsha, said.



  The statement confirmed a similar statement made by Ukraine's
  minister of justice, Pavel Petrenko. The minister said the two
  “were created for assaulting people, intimidation, sabotage,
  terrorist attacks, beatings, and murder of our citizens.”


  Criminal cases have been launched to investigate the
  “formation of the terrorist organizations.”


  On Friday, Golomsha stressed that the General Prosecutor's Office
  has managed to reveal channels through which weapons are being
  supplied to Donetsk and Lugansk.



  On May 11, the Ukrainian regions held referendums and voted for
  self-rule. Kiev and Western countries condemned the ballots,
  calling them illegal.



  Kiev has intensified its military crackdown in the region,
  deploying tanks, APCs and helicopters. It formed paramilitary
  forces which are now on the ground in Donetsk and Lugansk regions
  as part of an “anti-military operation.”



  The self-proclaimed republics are demanding the withdrawal of
  Kiev fighters which continue to clash with local self-defense
  units.



  The deadline for an ultimatum issued by the Donetsk People's
  Republic, which demanded that Kiev pull out its troops, passed on
  Friday.



  A deputy commander of the pro-autonomy militia of Donbass, Sergey
  Zdrilyuk, said on May 15 that all Ukrainian armed forces had 24
  hours to withdraw their armored vehicles and checkpoints from
  around “Donetsk, Mariupol, and other cities.”


  He threatened to “destroy and burn down all of this” if
  the demand was not met. However, Kiev's forces still remain in
  the region. According to the Donetsk People's Republic, the
  troops were enlarged following the ultimatum."
