"Kiev's army shoots at civilians, uses tanks, APCs in attack on Mariupol police HQ (VIDEO)

Kiev’s forces are using heavy weaponry and tanks in the eastern city of Mariupol to storm the local Interior Ministry building, where police have barricaded inside. After residents began flocking to the scene, Kiev fighters opened fire on civilians.


  There are conflicting reports about the killed and injured. The
  Ukrainian Interior Ministry said that about 20 anti-Kiev
  activists were killed and four more were taken captive, according
  to a statement posted on Interior Minister Arsen Avakov’s
  Facebook page.



  However, according to Donetsk authorities, three people have been
  killed and 25 injured, RIA Novosti cited the Donetsk region
  council's press service as saying.



    At Mariupol hospital doctor has said number killed today could
    be over 100.
  — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) May
  9, 2014


  Many people came to mark Victory Day, but as the reports of
  shooting started coming in, they moved on to show support for a
  few dozen policemen who had barricaded inside the building,
  refusing to take orders from Kiev.



  Federalization supporters screamed “Fascists!” as the
  Kiev forces approached.



  One of the armored vehicles then opened fire at a group of
  unarmed civilians, according to a self-defense forces’
  representative.


Video:
  /files/news/26/8b/c0/00/ukr1720_480p.mp4


  According to the 0629.ua news portal, “a tank was seized at
  the crossroads of Lenina and Torgovaya streets by the
  representatives of the Donetsk People’s Republic.”


  Mariupol’s residents have put up barricades in the streets,
  burned tires and turned over cars.


“At 12.50, 14 tanks were spotted coming from the agricultural
  base towards Mariupol. According to medics, there are two dead
  and 8 wounded,” 0629.ua portal stated.



  The outlet also reported that “on the Lenin avenue, two
  people were seriously wounded – one in the head and another in
  the stomach. A huge pool of blood is next to the “Arbat” caf?.
  It’s not known whether the wounded people have survived.
  Witnesses say they were driven away in a passenger car. The
  fighting is on next to the main police department, gunfire is
  heard. Two armored vehicles blocked the Artyom street.”


  The main Interior Ministry building is on fire, 0629.ua news
  portal reported.



  RT’s stringer in Mariupol has been injured while trying to film
  and is now in hospital. Doctors say that in spite of his
  bulletproof vest he has sustained a serious injury in the
  abdomen.



  Your employee was on [Georgievskaya] street,” Andrey, a
  Mariupol resident, told RT. “He was showing the armed and
  masked people in uniform that he is unarmed, that he was a
  journalist. But then he decided to abruptly cross the street. A
  shot was heard and he fell... He could not have provoked [the
  attack]. As I understood, he showed that he was a journalist and
  wanted to come closer to get a good picture.”
  After he fell, “he crawled to a car and hid behind it. We
  stopped a passing car for it to deliver him to a hospital for
  emergency help. We asked for traffic police officers who were
  close by for their help. One of them helped to drag your
  journalist and put him in a car.”


  Currently RT’s stringer is fighting for his life in hospital,
  doctors say that he is in a serious condition and cannot be
  transported.



    here is the video filmed by our producers in #Mariupol
    minutes before one was shot https://t.co/SEhOVrWqJI@Ruptly@RT_com@M_Simonyan
    — Lizzie Phelan (@LizziePhelan) May
    9, 2014


  According to the city’s health officials, there was a gun battle
  in the center and at least 4 people have been hospitalized with
  gunshot wounds, local 0629.ua news website reports.


About 1,500 people left the parade and went to the local
  interior ministry HQ. People in camouflage confronted them,
  shooting into the air using lethal weapons, a witness told
  Interfax.



    tanks, national guard and gunfire in #Mariupol
    today on #VictoryDay
    reports @Ruptly
    producer on the ground. Footage expected soon
  
    — Lizzie Phelan (@LizziePhelan) May
    9, 2014


  The witness also stated that another group of city residents set
  a car tire on fire next to the city council building.



  Earlier, self-defense forces in Mariupol reported that armed
  people had tried to seize the local city department of the
  Interior Ministry.


“Camouflaged people are storming the building of the city’s
  interior ministry department. A bus with soldiers has driven up –
  they are from a military unit located in the vicinity of
  Mariupol. Policemen who refuse to obey Kiev regime’s orders are
  being detained,” a representative of the self-defense forces
  told Interfax.



  The self-defense forces also said that “policemen of the city
  department refused to obey Kiev’s orders and guard the building
  of the city council, which had been seized a day earlier by the
  Ukrainian security services. As a result, Kiev authorities
  decided to storm the building of the city Interior Ministry
  department, policemen are shooting back, the building is
  surrounded.”

#Ukraine
    soldiers now retrieving from the city . Tanks fired shells at
    police HQ, now burning. #Mariupolpic.twitter.com/CNz9KLJffZ
    — Daniel Demoustier (@dandemoustier) 
    May 9, 2014


  Self-defense forces say the government forces used heavy weaponry
  while storming the local branch of the Interior Ministry.
  “Armored vehicles approached the building and opened fire
  with heavy weapons. The building is old and has thick walls, so
  you can’t penetrate it with machine gun fire,” a
  representative of the self-defense forces told Interfax news
  agency.


“On the central street of the city, I saw tanks and armored
  vehicles with the Ukrainian flags at around 11.40 am [local
  time]. Then, the city residents started to gather near the city
  executive committee building. Then some of the protesters tried
  to go to the district department of interior, but it seemed that
  the Kiev regime military was beginning to shoot at those who
  attempted to approach. I don’t know if they were shooting to
  kill, but at their legs – that’s for sure,” local resident
  Grigory told RT.



    #ìàðèóïîëü
    #äåíüïîáåäû
    #íîâîñòè
    #ñåé÷àñ
    #Óêðàèíàpic.twitter.com/LHchFOPCWN
    — Sergey Osadchiy (@Sergey_Osadchiy) 
    May 9, 2014


  City streets are now on lockdown for transport and pedestrians,
  as armored vehicles are approaching from the airport outside the
  city.


Yesterday we were told that some provocations were being
  prepared, but people didn't believe it, so a Victory Day parade
  was scheduled for 9am today, a local resident, who
  identified herself as Victoria, told RT.



  'This was an execution attempt against police who did not quit'



  Kiev’s National Guard used grenade launchers against police who
  earlier refused to shoot at unarmed civilians as the
  coup-appointed authorities ordered them to do, a representative
  of the local anti-fascist committee Pyotr Komissarov told RT.


“Earlier, the local police refused to shoot at civilians.
  [Kiev] called them traitors…Today, all police officers that
  didn’t ask for dismissal were attempted to be ‘executed’. Heavy
  military equipment was pulled into the city. They used small arms
  and rocket grenades, tanks fired from cannons at the police HQ
  building. The National Guard went to war with local police”


  The attackers were “volunteers, mercenaries” from
  central and western parts of the country, he said. “They wage
  war for money so they are capable of doing everything. We saw
  these people, talked to them.”

“They shot at civilians” he stressed. “I saw several
  people killed,” Komissarov said adding that among the killed
  were police officers. Right Sector representatives were
  identified among the dead, he added.



  The nationalists captured three police officers, he said. “We
  saw them tied up and sitting in the courtyard of the police
  HQ”, but later the people freed them.



  Ukrainian MP Oleg Lyashko claims that forces loyal to the Kiev
  coup-installed government have orders “not to take anyone
  alive.” He wrote in his Facebook account that “the
  perimeter around the Interior Ministry department building in
  Mariupol is completely blocked by the armed forces. Terrorists
  are barricaded inside and are now returning fire. An order has
  been issued not to take anyone alive.”

Video:
  /files/news/26/8b/c0/00/1602063_ukraine0905_480p.mp4"
