"Ukraine builds dam cutting off Crimea water supply

Recent satellite images show that Kiev is deliberately trying to cut off Crimea peninsula's water supply by building a dam. In the meantime Russian scientists are trying to find ways to supply Crimea with fresh water.


  Experts from the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources are
  developing ways to supply fresh water to the Crimea from the
  Kuban River in the Krasnodar region to the North Crimean Canal
  which now receives limited water-flow, as Kiev tightens the lid
  on Simferopol.


“As one of options of providing the peninsula with water, we
  are considering an option of drawing water supply from the Kuban
  River and channeling it through the Strait of Kerch to the end
  portion of North Crimean Canal,” director of the department
  of public policy and regulation in the field of water resources
  ministry of Russia Dmitry Kirillov told Ria Novosti.



  He added in order to do so the transfer an underground pipeline
  has to be built in three segments, with each stretching about 130
  kilometers.



  The options of laying a pipeline through the sea bed of Kerch
  Strait on special supports or as part of a bridge is now only in
  the design stage. Transferring water stock from the Kuban River
  via the Kerch Strait is estimated to cost up to 100 billion
  rubles ($ 2.8 billion).


“The topography allows to run the water in the opposite
  direction, from the east to north-west, using the cut off North
  Crimean Canal. Water from Kuban will be enough to meet the needs
  of housing, utilities, and agriculture of Crimea,” Kirillov
  explained.



  Before Crimea joined Russia in March, Ukraine provided up to 85
  percent of the peninsula’s water needs, through the canal
  stretching from the Dnepr River. The Crimean authorities have
  repeatedly asked Kiev to renegotiate water supply contracts.



  Instead Ukrainian authorities cut the flow of water from the
  normal spring level of 80-85 cubic meters per second to 4 cubic
  meters per second, the lowest technically feasible volume. Kiev
  justified their action by claiming that Crimea has an outstanding
  debt on water supplies.



  Recently released satellite photos seem to confirm earlier
  reports that Ukraine is purposefully trying to create a drought
  in Crimea by building a dam.



  The new sand bag construction is being erected in the Kherson
  region about 40km from the border with Crimea. Photos depict
  cranes operating on the side of the Armyansk - Kherson highway on
  a bridge in the town of Kalanchak.


“With the help of cranes and other construction equipment,
  the dam in the canal is being built right from the bridge,”
  one eyewitnesses told Itar-Tass.



  However the head of Kherson Regional State Administration, Yuriy
  Odarchenko, claimed that the newly built dam is related to
  construction of a “water metering station” which
  “will be finished soon” and will give precise
  measurement on the “amount of water that will be transferred
  to the Crimean peninsula,” RBK Ukraine reported.



  Kiev closed sluices of the North Crimean Canal in April. At the
  time of the closure, Crimean Prime Minister Sergey Aksyonov
  called Kiev's move an act of sabotage.


“Ukraine’s act of sabotage to limit the supply of water to
  the republic through the North Crimean Canal is nothing but a
  deliberate action against Crimeans,” he said, hinting at the
  possibility of drilling wells to compensate for water shortages
  on the peninsula, especially for the agricultural sector.


“The rice situation … is the worst. Crimea is redrawing the
  map of crop areas in regions where irrigation may not be
  available,” he added.



  Crimean farmers are estimated to lose up to 5 billion rubles
  ($140 million), according to Russia's Agriculture Ministry.


“The harvest will be partially or fully lost across 120,000
  hectares of farmland that should be irrigated [by water from the
  canal],” Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fyodorov said in
  April, as cited by the Moscow Times.



  Fyodorov said that Russia is willing to compensate farmers for
  some of their losses, as he stressed that Kiev refused to accept
  advance payments for Crimean water.



  According to the Crimean Economic Development and Trade Ministry,
  the agriculture sector is responsible for around 10 percent of
  Crimea's economy, estimated at $4.3 billion in 2012."
