"TOKYO, April 24 (Xinhua) -- Visiting U.S. President Barack Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Thursday vowed to enhance bilateral ties and agree to continue their talks on the U. S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) free trade talks.

Obama, speaking at the summit with Abe, commented the U.S.- Japan alliance as the foundation for not only the U.S. security in Asia-Pacific region, but also for the region as a whole.

As to the TPP, Obama said in the joint press conference that the free trade talks should benefit the U.S. consumers and companies, adding the two countries are closer to deal on market access in TPP.

The president, however, said that limited access to Japanese market must be addressed under TPP.

For his part, Abe said that the two sides have agreed to seek an early conclusion of the TPP free trade talks and they would release a statement after ministerial talks on TPP later the day.

Abe said that the two leaders' summit has vitalized the Japan-U. S. alliance and they will expand cooperation in the defense area.

The two countries also agreed to work together to deal with nuclear and missile issues of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 

Related:

Video >> Obama arrives in Tokyo in first leg of Asia tour

Photo >> Dozens of people protest U.S. president's visit in Tokyo

Dozens of people protest U.S. president's visit in Tokyo

TOKYO, April 23 (Xinhua) -- Dozens of citizens congregated near the Japanese Prime Minister's Official Residence on Wednesday evening, protesting the visit by U.S. President Barack Obama and summit meeting between the two countries' leaders scheduled on Thursday.

Demonstrators gathered to voice their anger at some sensitive issues, such as Yasukuni Shrine visits, government's attempts to reinterpret the constitution, lift a ban on exercising collective self defense and set up new bases in Okinawa.Full story

U.S. President Obama arrives in Japan on 4-nation Asia trip

TOKYO, April 23 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Barack Obama on Wednesday arrived in Japan, the first leg of his four-nation Asia trip.

Obama will stay here through Friday and will hold a summit with Japanese Prime MinisterShinzo Abewith a focus on the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) free trade talks.Full story"
