"Sanctions 'not effective' in modern world - Putin

Sanctions against Russia will backfire and actually benefit the economy, President Vladimir Putin has said. His comments follow US President Obama’s threat that the White House has prepared a third round of sanctions.

“Over-reliance can lead to a loss of sovereignty,” Putin
  said at a media forum in St. Petersburg on Thursday.



  Western-led sanctions have several advantages for Russia, the
  President said.



  The threat of real economic sanctions is already helping boost
  domestic businesses, bringing more offshore funds back to Russia,
  and giving policymakers the push they need to establish a
  domestic payment system. Similar to what Prime Minister Medvedev
  said last week, sanctions will only make Russia stronger.


De-offshorization
  has long been a priority of the Kremlin, and Western-led
  sanctions only help this cause.



  Russians with Western-held assets worry their funds could be
  frozen at any moment, which gives incentives to keep money
  domestically and pay taxes into the Russian budget, and not an
  offshore tax haven. An estimated $111 billion of Russian money, or 20 percent of the
  country’s exports, is lost offshore,



  Policymakers are also encouraging businesses to list their companies in Russia, and not abroad, to
  shield themselves from sanctions.



  The first wave of US sanctions prompted a mix-up with Visa and
  Mastercard, which led to unlawful blocked payment freezes at three Russian
  banks in March. Services shortly resumed, but President Putin thinks the
  disruption will lead to losses for the two giant credit card
  companies.



  According to Putin, this was a “very big mistake”.



  Putin said he believes the Visa and MasterCard payment systems
  will lose their market share in Russia -currently 90 percent-
  over any future payment disruptions.


“I’m sure they are already aware of this,” the president
  said.


“I’m not talking about some administrative steps from our
  side. We do not envision any punishment steps for our dishonest
  partners. But they are undermining our credibility in them, which
  means they are absolutely certain to be losing market
  share, the president added.



  Putin is worried that the payment systems will continue to
  “cave” under US pressure.



  Third Round of Sanctions



  On Wednesday, US President Obama said the US is ready to unleash
  a third round of sanctions against Russia, as tensions in eastern
  Ukraine haven’t deescalated, as agreed upon in last week’s Geneva
  peace plan.



  New sanctions by the United States and Europe will likely target
  specific industries- like energy and banking
  
  While sanctions against Russia have had some negative effects on
  the Russian economy, like a ratings cut and loans becoming more
  expensive, it hasn't been dramatic, Putin said.


On the whole, probably, [ratings] cause harm, because
  ratings are reviewed and loans can become more expensive,
  etc.,” Putin said.



  So far, two agencies, Standard & Poor's and Fitch have
  downgraded Russia's credit rating over the potential impact of US
  and EU sanctions.



  Forecasters have cut their estimates for Russian growth in 2014,
  with the best case scenario at 2.5 precent, and the worst,
  0
  percent.



  The EU is holding off on a third stage of sanctions against
  Russia over Ukraine, as there is little consensus among member
  states. The council is considering economic measures, but won’t
  meet again until May 12 to discuss the matter."
