"Putin: Washington behind Ukraine events all along, though flying low

The US has been behind the Ukrainian crisis from the beginning, but was initially flying low, Russian President Vladimir Putin has said. He added that if sanctions continue, Russia will have to reconsider who has access to key sectors of its economy.

“I think what is happening now shows us who really was
  mastering the process from the beginning. But in the beginning,
  the United States preferred to remain in the shadow,” Putin
  said, as quoted by RIA Novosti.



  Putin stated that since the US has taken a lead role in resolving
  the political crisis in Ukraine, it is “telling that they
  originally were behind this process, but now they just have
  emerged as leaders” of it.



  The Maidan cookies policy paves the way to a broader
  crisis, Putin warned, referring to US officials showing up in
  central Kiev and encouraging protesters during demonstrations.


“It is necessary to understand that the situation is serious
  and try to find serious approaches to the solution,” he
  said.



  Putin said that he has called on Kiev to start an all-Ukrainian
  dialogue, adding that other countries should not be blamed for
  the crisis.


“[They should] treat equally the rights of those living in
  other areas of Ukraine, first of all, I mean, the east and
  southeast, establish a dialogue, find a compromise, he told
  journalists while speaking about the measures necessary to put an
  end to the crisis. “Here's what you need to do; searching for
  the guilty outside Ukraine is wrong.”


  Russia may reconsider foreign access to energy sector



  Regarding the last row of sanctions imposed on Russia by the US
  and the EU, Vladimir Putin said he sees no need for counter
  sanctions.


We would very much wish not to resort to any measures in
  response, he told reporters. But if something like
  that continues, we will of course have to think about who is
  working in the key sectors of the Russian economy, including the
  energy sector, and how.”


  Certain US companies have close business ties to Russia,
  including Exxon Mobil and Chevron Corp.



  For example, Exxon Mobil's net acreage holdings in Sakhalin,
  Russia were about 85,000 acres at the end of 2013, while its net
  acreage in the Rosneft joint venture for the Kara and Black Seas
  was 11.3 million acres.



  Chevron Corp has a 15 percent stake in the Caspian Pipeline
  Consortium, which transports crude oil from Kazakhstan through
  Russia to the Black Sea.



  On Monday, the US implemented its latest round of sanctions against Russia, targeting business
  leaders and companies with ties to Putin.


Regarding the second package, it's not clear at all what
  this is linked to, because there is no cause and effect link with
  what is happening now in Ukraine and Russia, Putin said.



  At the same time, the US and EU sanctions will not harm the
  Eurasian integration process, which is meant to lead to the
  creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, based on a Customs Union
  and common economic space among Russia, Kazakhstan, and Belarus,
  he said.



  Putin also commented on observers from the Organization for Security
  and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) being detained in eastern
  Ukraine, stating that he is confident that the situation will be
  resolved, but stressing that all parties involved must draw
  conclusions.


“All the participants in this process will have to draw
  conclusions from this, from this situation. And from now on avoid
  such mistakes,” he said.



  Putin noted that he understands the concerns of European partners
  and added that Ukrainian authorities should have discussed and
  received approval for the visit from local authorities in eastern
  Ukraine in order to avoid such a situation."
