"Ukraine strikes 3.2 bcm reverse gas flow deal with Slovakia

?Energy-pinched Ukraine has reached a deal to start reverse gas flows from Central European neighbors via an unused pipeline to Slovakia. Starting from October, Ukraine will import 3.2 billion cubic meters of gas.


  Ukraine and Slovakia signed a memorandum of intent in Bratislava
  on Monday. The European Commission said the cooperation between
  Slovakia and Ukraine is a “win-win for both parties”.


“It shows the EU's strong commitment in support of Ukraine's
  energy sector, which is also reflected in the economic and
  financial package the Union has swiftly provided for Ukraine in
  the past weeks. I would like to thank Energy Commissioner
  Oettinger and his team, who played a central role in paving the
  way for today’s agreement,” Jose Barroso, President of the
  European Commission, who attended the ceremony, said in a
  statement.



  By next spring, deliveries from Vojany, Slovakia to the western
  Ukrainian city of Uzhorod could reach 10 billion cubic meters,
  the amount European Commissioner for Energy Gunter Oettinger
  requested.



  Deliveries from Slovakia could satisfy up to 20 percent of
  Ukraine’s natural gas demand, which in 2013 was 55 billion cubic
  meters.



  In April, German energy company RWE started delivering gas to Ukraine using reverse flow
  through Poland. The gas is being supplied under a 2012 contract
  where RWE can deliver up to 10 billion cubic meters of gas to
  Ukraine per year.



  Between these two deals alone, Ukraine has upped its supply from
  Europe ten-fold. Last year Ukraine imported around 2 billion
  cubic meters of gas from EU member states.



  Ukraine imports nearly 50 percent of its natural gas from Russia,
  a country it now finds itself at diplomatic ends with, as it
  moves towards possible EU integration. In 2013, the country
  bought 27.7 billion meters, from Gazprom, Russia’s largest
  state-owned natural gas producer.



  The deal is a short-term solution for Ukraine, which can no
  longer afford Russian gas after Moscow cancelled all gas
  discounts for Kiev, as it waits for Ukraine to repay an overdue
  gas bill of $2.2 billion.



  Ukraine’s Energy Ministry was hoping to unlock more gas imports
  from its European neighbors, but Slovakian authorities must be
  careful not avoid any legal issues with Gazprom.



  Currently Ukraine needs to pay $485 per thousand cubic meters for Russian gas,
  which compares to $268.5 agreed between Russia and Ukraine in
  December.



  Ukraine currently has a “take-and-pay” contract with Gazprom
  which it is required to buy 41.6 billion cubic meters of gas in
  order to receive discount prices. In 2013, Ukraine only bough
  12.9 billion cubic meters of gas, which prompted Gazprom last
  week to send Naftogaz, Ukraine’s state oil and gas company, a
  bill for $11.4 billion.



  Ukraine presidential candidate Pyotr Poroshenko has said that by
  2015, Ukraine will stop buying Russian gas. More neighbors may be
  tapped to start supplying gas to Ukraine, perhaps Poland or
  Hungary.



  Time to diversify?



  In the wake of the Ukraine crisis, many of Gazprom's European customers
  have been second-guessing Russian gas, and have renewed
  conversations of lessening dependence from their powerful
  neighbor.



  Many countries in Eastern Europe believe the continent can
  achieve energy security and at the same time retain relations
  with Russia. Croatian President Ivo Josipovic doesn't see the
  energy as a zero sum game.


Diversifying supplies does not mean that the EU’s current
  gas, oil and coal suppliers, primarily Russia and Norway, will
  not continue to be important energy partners of the EU. What will
  change is that EU member countries will have more conceivable
  alternatives in the interest of energy security, Josipovic
  
  wrote in an FT opinion piece on Monday.



  Poland's Prime Minister Donald Tusk has been a main proponent of
  diversifying Europe's imports as well as developing
  shale, but their is still discord among much of Europe. In
  terms of developing shale, many states in Europe have banned the
  practice, while others, like Croatia, are taking a more cautious
  approach, than say, Poland or the UK.



  Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Finland, Bulgaria and the Czech
  Republic import 100 percent of their natural gas from Russia and
  logically want to diversify their import options. Other countries
  like Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia, Slovenia, and Italy are very keen
  to continue doing business with Russia, especially on Gazprom's
  'South Stream' project, which by 2018 will supply 64 billion
  cubic meters of natural gas to European markets."
