"‘Why do they hate us so much?’ Southeast Ukraine seeks to understand new regime

‘Anger’, ‘disenchantment’ and  ‘pride’ are three words that perfectly sum up the mood in southeastern Ukraine at the moment. However, there is one thing the majority of citizens in this region crave more than anything – a referendum on their future.


  RT’s documentary channel shows footage never seen on television
  looking at the reaction of residents living in eastern Ukraine,
  to see how they have been affected since the coup-appointed
  government took power in Kiev.



  Watch RT's documentary South-East Ukraine: Crisis Diary (Unique
  Documentary Shot by Ordinary People)


“We are not separatists, we are not radicals. I live in
  Kharkov and I am 61 and want to understand what country I live
  in,” said one local resident.


“When are they going to stop calling us separatists? We get
  up each morning and start greeting each other, ‘hello I’m a
  separatist’, ‘hello, I’m a terrorist,’” said a women living
  in Lugansk.



  Residents in the east of the country are ready for the long haul.
  They have local support and have begun to fortify positions
  around cities and towns, in preparation for expected attacks from
  forces loyal to Kiev. However, many hope it won’t come to this.


“We are all Slavs. We have to live in peace. We are brothers
  and we should not fight each other. Our home is Russia,”
  said a group of men aged around 50. “How is it possible to
  listen to that so-called government from Kiev who gave orders
  today to kill their own people in Slavyansk,” they
  continued.



  Slavyansk has been the stronghold of the anti-Kiev uprising. Just
  a few months ago, it was just another town in the Donetsk region,
  which is the industrial heartland of the country. However, since
  the coup-installed government came to power and ousted President
  Viktor Yanokovich, who was born just over 100 kilometers away in
  Enakievo, things have been very different in the city, with
  anti-government sentiment growing by the day.


“Both my grandfathers were killed in World War II. I will
  never sing ‘Glory to Ukraine’ or ‘Glory to Bandera’. I hope they
  get the message,” said a middle-aged man in Slavyansk.



  The vast majority of anti-Kiev protestors are unarmed. They carry
  baseball bats and wear military fatigues, but few have weapons
  and guns like the forces loyal to the coup-installed government.


“Dmitry Yarosh, who is the head of theRight Sectoris assembling a hit squad called
  ‘Donbass’. Once it is assembled, he is going to target us. We are
  just unarmed people who are trying to protect our legitimate
  interests,” said another local resident in Slavyansk.



  The documentary shows how difficult it has become for some
  Russian-speaking Ukrainians to live in their own country. People
  are stopped in the street and beaten or arrested just for wearing
  a St. George ribbon, to commemorate those who were killed in the
  Second World War. While groups of ultra nationalist and radical
  groups roam the streets spreading fueling and stoking tension.


“There is no difference between us, except we don’t speak
  Ukrainian. Why do they hate their own people so much? Where does
  all this bitterness and hatred come from?” a women, almost
  brought to tears, said.



  One man in his early 20’s, who was leading a Ukrainian
  nationalist rally stated, “We want the Europe that the
  crusaders fought for, the Europe that the European nationalists
  fought for, the Europe of white people. Muslims humiliate native
  people now and they take away our lands. We will stand for a
  white Europe, a traditional Europe!”


  It is difficult for local residents of southeastern Ukraine to
  understand that their own country is trying to attack them, just
  because they have different viewpoints. Contact with soldiers
  loyal to Kiev is common and some of the troops understand the
  pro-Russian Ukrainians’ predicament.



  However, it is not just in the south east of the country where
  displeasure has been voiced over the last few months about what
  has unfolded in Ukraine. One man speaking in the port city of
  Odessa said, “Around 80 percent of the people here are
  against Maidan. The rest are either misled or don’t live here
  permanently.”


  There is a sense of lawlessness in the country, with those in the
  south east feeling particularly vulnerable. Those living in
  cities like Dnepropetrovsk and Odessa feel they have no
  protection from the police against attacks by Ukrainian Right
  Sector radicals.



  A referendum and an exit from control by Kiev seems like the only
  viable option."
