"China ‘opposed to sanctions of any kind’ over Ukraine

China never believed in economic sanctions as a way to solve problems, so it will be very wary of participating in any sort of sanction action against Russia over Ukrainian crisis, George Koo, founder of International Strategic Alliances, told RT.

RT:China opposes sanctions against Russia
  over Ukraine. Why do you think China is taking this
  position?

George Koo: I think it is a very consistent
  long-standing policy. They do not believe in confrontational
  sanctions as a way for international diplomacy. They think
  discussion and negotiation is the way to go. They have a
  fundamental principle which is opposed to sanctions of any kind.



  In the case of the Russia-Ukraine situation it actually looks a
  bit more complicated because China also has a very long-standing
  policy on non-interference in others' domestic affairs. So now it
  becomes a situation when whether Russia is interfering within
  Ukraine domestic affairs, or Russia and Ukraine are dealing with
  a domestic affair which others, Western powers for example,
  should not be interfering. This part is a little bit complicated,
  but fundamentally China never believed in economic sanctions of
  any kind as a way to solve problems.


RT:Do you think this stance will in any way
  influence Washington's decision on further punitive measures
  against Russia?

GK: I doubt very much. I think China does not
  have the whole lot of influence on the diplomacy as practiced by
  Washington, and there is a lot of distrust and weariness from
  both parts. So it is not like a semi-partnership that will solve
  international problems, at least not at this point. It has
  reached the point where the two can come together and discuss and
  find a common solution. That has not happened before and it does
  not seem that in the case of Ukraine-Crimea situation it will
  happen.


RT:Are we seeing a new Russia-China
  alliance emerging, and could this have an impact on the global
  power balance?

GK: The global balance of power has very much
  been a Western concept, a Western idea, and in a certain way it
  was very much enforced during the Cold War. The Soviet Union, the
  Eastern Bloc versus the Western powers, the NATO nations. China
  has never been a part of these kinds of alliances one way or the
  other, I do not thing they are comfortable taking sides in this
  kind of situation. They wanted to get along certainly with the US
  to the extent possible, they are mindful of economic and other
  partnerships that they have with Russia, and I do not think they
  relish to be in the middle of this kind of confrontation.


RT:If tougher sanctions are imposed against
  Russia could China gain from this, by seeing stronger trade ties
  with Russia?

GK: Certainly, potentially, although China and
  Russia really have very strong economic cooperation in many
  areas. Energy is certainly one of them. In China’s scheme of
  things economic issues trump all other issues, and that is the
  way they have been in their practice around the world. So will
  the sanctions force Russia into the arms of China even more so? I
  do not know. It is hard to say.


RT:When it comes to the crisis in Ukraine
  itself, where does China stand?

GK: Initially they were very hesitant because
  there are conflicting issues here. One is supposedly Crimea,
  which was a part of the Ukraine territory, so from that point of
  view I think they are hesitant because it seems like Russia was
  interfering within domestic affairs. On the other hand everybody
  knows that Ukraine has been very much part of Russian
  civilization. And one can argue that this is a sort of internal
  squabble among cousins or even among brothers. From that point of
  view China will be very leery of participating in any sort of
  sanction action.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
