"NSA spying on foreign embassies helped US 'develop' strategy

The National Security Agency in 2010 provided the US ambassador to the United Nations with background information on several governments and their embassies that were undecided on the question of Iranian sanctions.


  In May 2010, as the UN Security Council was attempting to win
  support for sanctions against Iran over its nuclear-energy
  program, which some say is a front for a nuclear weapons program,
  several members were undecided as to how they would vote. At this
  point, the US ambassador to the world body, Susan Rice, asked the
  NSA for assistance in her efforts to “develop a
  strategy,” leaked NSA documents reveal.
  
  The NSA swung into action, aiming their powerful surveillance
  apparatus at the personal communications of diplomats from four
  non-permanent Security Council members — Bosnia, Gabon, Nigeria
  and Uganda. This gave Rice an apparent upper-hand in the course
  of the negotiations.
  
  In June, 12 of the 15-member Security Council voted in favor of
  new sanctions.
  
  Later, Rice extended her gratitude to the US spy agency, saying
  its surveillance had helped her to know when diplomats from the
  other permanent representatives — China, England, France and
  Russia — “were telling the truth ... revealed their real
  position on sanctions ... gave us an upper hand in negotiations
  ... and provided information on various countries’ ‘red
  lines’.”
  The information comes from a new book by journalist Glenn
  Greenwald, ‘No Place to Hide: Edward Snowden, the NSA, and
  the US Surveillance State’, the New York Times reported.
  
  Rice’s request for assistance was discovered in an internal
  report by the security agency’s Special Source Operations
  division, which cooperates with US telecommunications companies
  in the event a request for information is deemed necessary.
  
  Greenwald’s book goes on sale Tuesday.
  
  The book also provides a list of embassies around the world that
  had been infiltrated by the US spy agency, including those of
  Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, the European Union, France, Georgia,
  Greece, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Slovakia, South Africa,
  South Korea, Taiwan, Venezuela and Vietnam.
  


  News of the NSA’s vast surveillance network, which targets
  friends and enemies of the United States with equanimity, were
  revealed in June when former NSA contractor Edward Snowden
  provided Greenwald with thousands of files on the program.
  
  Despite promises by President Obama for greater safeguards on the
  invasive system, which has infuriated people around the world,
  the NSA seems determined not to let international public opinion
  block its spying efforts.
  “While our intelligence agencies will continue to gather
  information about the intentions of governments — as opposed to
  ordinary citizens — around the world, in the same way that the
  intelligence services of every other nation do, we will not
  apologize because our services may be more effective,”
  according to a White House statement.
  
  The latest revelations detailing how the NSA gives American
  diplomats an unfair advantage raises the question as to how such
  orders passed legal muster in the first place.
  
  According to the documents, a legal team went to work on May 22
  building the case to electronically eavesdrop on diplomats and
  envoys from Bosnia, Gabon, Nigeria and Uganda whose embassies
  were apparently not yet covered by the NSA.
  
  A judge from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court approved
  the request on May 26.
  
  The Obama administration has faced fierce criticism following
  revelations of the global surveillance program, which was used
  not simply to identify potential terrorists, but to eavesdrop on
  the communications of world leaders.
  
  Following revelations that German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
  private cell phone communications were being hacked by the NSA,
  Germany pushed for a ‘no-spy’ agreement with the United States to
  restore the trust.
  
  The Obama administration, however, rejected the offer.
  
  Now Europe has announced plans to construct a new Internet
  network that bypasses the United States and the NSA, a move the
  US Trade Representative labeled “draconian.”"
