"‘Feed your army, motherf***ers!’ Raging locals ‘hijack’ RT report as Ukraine troops raid Slavyansk

Eastern Ukrainians enraged by the Kiev military operation have used an RT video report to tell first-hand details of a Ukrainian army attack in Slavyansk. The Ukrainian troops raided a checkpoint and took all the food and medicine, they said.


  Ukraine-based British journalist Graham Phillips was making a
  video report for RT on Thursday right after Ukrainian armed
  forces stormed a checkpoint near Slavyansk and were withdrawing
  from the area.



  As Phillips was telling of the volatile situation in the
  background and reports of fatalities in the shootout, two locals
  approached his camera to have their say on what happened at the
  scene.


“Those who just left the checkpoint are f******
  jackals,” an angry man shouted, pointing in the direction of
  the retreating Ukrainian troops.


“They robbed us – they took our food, medicines, they just
  looted the place!” he said.



  Another man intervened, addressing the coup-imposed acting
  Ukrainian President Aleksandr Turchinov, who ordered the
  so-called “anti-terrorist operation” to resume in
  eastern Ukraine on Wednesday: “Turchinov feed them, will
  you?!”

“Turchinov, what the f***? Feed them, you motherf*****!”
  the first man chimed in.



  This is not the first time reports from Ukraine hint at the poor
  state of the Ukrainian army, which has been sent to the
  south-east of the country to quell the anti-government protests.
  While Slavyansk activists told RT young soldiers were sent to
  shoot at them with no food supplies, some of the Ukrainian
  soldiers who surrendered to the locals told RIA Novosti they had
  to eat “a nettle soup,” which they gathered on the
  roadside.



  Other video reports coming from Slavyansk on Thursday told a
  similar story to the men interrupting Phillips.



    Ukrainian army drive off at high speed after #Sloviansk
    checkpoint attack, reports of fatalities. pic.twitter.com/dChfXxmxN7
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    24, 2014


  Several Ukrainian troops “put a number of locals face down on
  the ground although they had no weapons whatsoever, after that
  the military drove away the rest and seized all the food from the
  checkpoint that was brought by the people to the fellows standing
  guard,” said a witness speaking to local activists on camera.



  He added that one young activist was shot dead and another
  injured at a nearby checkpoint overnight. Both activists were
  unarmed, he said, calling the incident an “abuse” of
  Ukrainian troops’ duties.



  The activists reporting from the barricades said the raided
  checkpoints are now being reinforced with concrete blocks and
  that the self-defense troops are bracing for a looming attack.


#Sloviansk
    now - car stopped, man taken out at gunpoint. A sight more
    common every day. pic.twitter.com/bxsxcgdANf
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    24, 2014


  Asked later by Phillips, activists at a Slavyansk checkpoint said
  that the Ukrainian troops are attacking them because of Kiev
  propaganda.


“Why the Ukrainians are attacking us? It is because they do
  not look on us as people, they think of us as scum, separatists,
  terrorists. But we, in fact, are protecting our own native
  city,” an activist told
  Phillips.



    Sloviansk checkpoint attacked by Ukr army pic.twitter.com/oNekbJhrxp
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) April
    24, 2014


  The idea that the Ukrainian army is underfinanced is not just
  coming from media reports, but is a frequent subject of
  discussion in the Ukrainian parliament, now dominated by the
  former opposition parties. However, soon after stating that
  “the treasury is empty,” the coup-imposed Kiev
  government preferred not to raise financing of the regular troops
  on the ground, but instead formed the armed National Guard, whose
  members are being picked “on the basis of patriotism.”
  Initially gathered from the Maidan self-defense squads which
  helped bring down President Viktor Yanukovich and then sent to
  southeastern Ukraine, the National Guard has last week been
  “urgently” reinforced by additional units by an order of
  coup-imposed Ukrainian Security Service head Andrey Paruby."
