"?Day of joy and grief: Russia marks 69th Victory Day

With a mixed feeling of joy and grief, young and old are flooding the streets all across Russia and former Soviet states to commemorate those millions who sacrificed their lives to defeat the Nazi invasion 69 years ago.


  Emotional embraces and red carnations are just some of the modern
  symbols of appreciation that thousands of veterans of the Great
  Patriotic War (how people in Russia and across the former Soviet
  states refer to the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in
  1941-45) will receive in every corner of the biggest country on
  the planet.



  Parades big and small will of course showcase Russia’s current
  military might, but first of all will honor the sacrifice of some
  27 million Soviet citizens who perished during the national
  struggle against Nazi Germany. The main national parade, as
  always, is taking place in Moscow’s Red Square. More than 11,000
  troops, 49 military vehicles and 69 warplanes will be on display
  for the spectators in the Russian capital.



  The parade marathon was kicked off in Vladivostok in the far east
  of Russia, home to the country's Pacific Fleet. After the
  procession of the armed forces, an Immortal regiment, comprised
  of relatives of those who died during the war, reminded the
  onlookers of the faces of victory, by holding up pictures of
  deceased veterans.



  St. Petersburg, which marked the anniversary of liberation from
  the Siege of Leningrad this year, will also witness the parade on
  Palace Square followed by a procession of veterans and blockade
  survivors on the main artery of the city, Nevsky Prospect. Just
  like in Moscow and other cities across Russia, WWII-themed
  special exhibits will await the spectators on this truly national
  holiday.



  In the Hero City of Sevastopol – home to the Russian Black Sea
  fleet in Crimea – a total of 70 warplanes and helicopters will
  feature during the parade on May 9. Afterward, a traditional
  Victory Day military parade will be held with more than 1,000
  Russian navy officers and soldiers, Sevastopol's security forces
  and local military academies participating in it.



  Throughout the day, celebrations are held for war veterans. In
  Moscow, open air concerts have been organized in major squares
  with traditional veterans’ meetings held in the city’s parks. For
  those eager to taste wartime food rations, a field kitchen is
  offering samples in the center of Moscow. Similar commemorative
  events are planned all across the nation.



  Traditionally, a minute of silence is also observed throughout
  the country, at 19:00 Moscow time (15:00 GMT). It was introduced
  in 1965 as a way to commemorate those Soviet soldiers and
  civilians who died in the Great Patriotic War. The day will be
  concluded with spectacular displays of military salutes and
  fireworks.



  Ukraine, which also marks the 69 anniversary of defeat over Nazi
  Germany, will commemorate the holiday in a more low-key way amid
  great tensions and a split in society. Most cities have canceled
  mass commemorations over fears that there may be violence from
  the ultra-nationalist Right Sector group, which opposes what they
  call a Soviet occupation and deny the historical importance of
  the Soviet multinational fight against the Nazi invaders. Earlier
  this week, Ukraine's government media watchdog urged TV channels
  not to include Russian war films or documentaries in their
  rundown.


“If possible, refrain from any mass rallies, and in the case
  of participation in them, do not succumb to provocations.
  Demonstrate tolerance to flags, slogans, and other
  opinions,” coup-installed Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk
  said.



  The Victory Day parade will not go ahead in Kiev, as the head of
  the city administration is afraid of destabilization of the
  capital, blaming Russia for possible unrest. Law enforcement
  agencies were also asking people to avoid clashes and help
  maintain peace. According to Bondarenko, all Ukrainian Security
  Service (SBU) officers have been placed on high alert. EuroMaidan
  paramilitary groups will also be keeping order.



  In western Ukraine, traditionally more nationalist, in the cities
  of Ternopol and Lvov, the display of all communist symbols and
  nationalist insignia has been banned. Military parades have also
  been canceled, as well as the traditional laying of wreaths of
  flowers next to the Monument to the Unknown Soldier.



  Yet despite the ban, the veterans in Lvov are still planning to
  hold their own commemorations. The head of the Lvov veterans
  association, Timofei Mahanyuk, told RT that, despite the ban, he
  and many of the veterans will fulfill their duty and pay their
  respects to their fallen comrades by laying flowers at their
  graves.



  Mahanyuk says that Lvov has become a breeding ground for
  Ukrainian Nazism. He says that he and many of his veterans
  always face the possibility of being attacked. But despite a
  threat to their well-being, veterans will hold May 9
  commemorations.



  In the southeast of Ukraine, some Victory Day events will take
  place, but celebrations are expected to be more low key once
  darkness falls.



  In Odessa, the scene of the May 2 deadly clashes, authorities
  will deploy over 2,000 security officers to ensure order amid
  fears of possible provocations. The parade has been canceled, but
  residents will have the opportunity to greet veterans, lay
  wreaths and watch firework displays.



  In Lugansk, the parade and the fireworks have been canceled, but
  residents will have the opportunity to show respect for all those
  who perished during the world's bloodiest war."
