"Kerry rebuked EU for inciting Ukraine ‘tug of war’– report

While publicly denying Russia’s accusation that the EU forced Ukraine choose between Russia and Europe, in private America’s top diplomat reportedly admitted this as fact and that it played a part in escalating the ongoing crisis.

“Some folks in Europe made mistakes, the association
  agreement became too much of an East-West tug of war. It
  shouldn’t have been,” US Secretary of State John Kerry
  reportedly said at a private meeting of the Trilateral Commission
  in Washington last Friday. His words were quoted by the Daily
  Beast on Tuesday.



  Russia has long insisted that the EU and the US sparked the
  political crisis in Ukraine last October. The EU Association
  Agreement, which President Viktor Yanukovich refused to sign
  after long deliberation, would require Ukraine to sever or
  downgrade many of its economic ties with Russia, which would hurt
  greatly its economy. Yanukovich’s decision triggered the protest
  in Kiev, which eventually escalated into an armed coup that
  deposed him.



  European and American officials rejected Russia’s view of the
  ill-fated agreement, insisting it would not damage Ukraine’s
  trade with Russia. But apparently in private conversation
  American diplomats don’t follow the narrative.



  The division between the US and the EU over Ukraine was
  highlighted earlier in February after a recording of a phone
  conversation between Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nuland
  and American Ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt was leaked.



  They were discussing the foreign effort to help anti-Yanukovich
  opposition create what has now became the new Ukrainian
  government and expressed frustration at EU’s hesitance on the
  matter, culminated by the infamous “F**k the EU” exclamation from
  Nuland.



  Kerry’s private comment on the EU’s role in the crisis is just a
  small part of the Daily Beast report. The majority was focused on
  the alleged evidence that the US had of Russian agents acting in
  Ukraine to stir up protest. While the website initially implied
  that the evidence had been recorded by US intelligence, the State
  Department later clarified that the reported remarks were related
  to recordings produced by the Ukrainian government.



  Kiev published a six-minute recording, which it said proved the
  presence of Russian secret agents in Ukraine, two weeks ago. This
  was one day after a disastrous attack on protester-held
  Slavyansk, in which then-head of the Anti-Terrorist Center of the
  Ukrainian Security Service was injured. However, the evidence was
  far from conclusively damning for Russia.



  Another package of evidence Ukraine produced so far, which the US
  State Department endorsed, proved to be faulty. The alleged photo
  evidence case quickly collapsed, with the New York Times, which
  headlined it, having to publish a follow-up admitting its failure to properly verify it.



  Following Kerry’s previous remarks on the alleged Russian
  involvement in Ukraine, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov
  challenged his counterpart to produce any
  real proof.


“Kerry has many times mentioned that Ukrainian intelligence
  captured Russian agents,” he said. “So, show them to the
  people, have them on TV. Kerry says they don’t want to disclose
  the identities of those people who are engaged in the captures.
  This is not serious.”"
