"Ukrainian military storm Kramatorsk, 1 dead, 9 injured

The Ukrainian army’s assault on Kramatorsk has finished, witnesses say, adding that the military did not enter the town. Preliminary reports say that one self-defense activist was killed and nine were injured.


  It is unclear whether there are any casualties on the army’s
  side.



  Meanwhile coup-appointed interior minister Arsen Avakov has said
  on his Facebook page that Kiev is not planning to stop the
  special military operation in Kramatorsk, adding that the
  military assault will continue at sunrise. He added that the
  military took control of a TV tower in Kramatorsk overnight.


“The military attacked the barricade on the road to
  Yasnogorka (town adjacent to Kramatorsk),” an eye-witness in
  Kramatorsk told RT when the assault started late on Friday.
  “The lights have been turned off on the nearby street. Shots
  are being heard across the city, signal rockets light up the sky
  from time to time. People are saying the Ukrainian army is
  shooting at everything that moves right now.”


  Medics told RIA Novosti that 10 people sustained wounds, one of
  whom died in hospital. At least one of the injured is a woman. It
  was earlier reported that dozens had been killed or injured.



  Meanwhile, the army has resumed its special operation in
  Slavyansk on Friday evening. The headquarters of the people’s
  self-defense is under snipers’ fire, according to Itar-Tass.
  There are reports of injuries among protesters.



  The Ukrainian Defense Ministry said that two military personnel
  were killed on Friday in the village of Andreyevka, not far from
  Slavyansk, Donetsk region. According to the ministry, they came
  under an attack with the use of small arms.



  “The violent military confrontation is ongoing. To date,
  information about the deaths of two Ukrainian servicemen has been
  confirmed,” the ministry said in a statement, as quoted by
  Interfax-Ukraine.



  Kiev has intensified its military operation in eastern Ukraine,
  with the army surrounding the anti-government stronghold of
  Slavyansk, blockading civilians inside with military helicopters
  and APCs on Friday morning. Two pilots have died, and
  self-defense forces in Slavyansk said that one of their members
  was killed.



  Meanwhile at least 31 anti-government activists have died in a
  fire at Odessa’s Trade Unions House. Some burned to death, while
  others suffocated or jumped out of windows, the Ukrainian
  Interior Ministry reported. The building was set ablaze by
  pro-Kiev radicals.



  A total of 43 people have died in Odessa violence on Friday and
  174 others have sustained injuries. Twenty-five of those remain
  in critical condition, according to Odessa City Council."
