"Apple reveals US govt data request rules

Apple has released a document which outlines the circumstances under which US customer data will be given to law enforcement officials.


  The iPad and iPhone producer posted the guidelines late Wednesday to outline the
  information which can and cannot be given to authorities after
  disclosure requests, court orders or search warrants are
  dispatched.
  “These guidelines are provided for use by law enforcement or
  other government entities in the U.S. when seeking information
  from Apple Inc. ('Apple') about users of Apple's products and
  services, or from Apple devices,” they state.
  
  Apple will be able to provide registration details including
  names, email addresses, telephone numbers and personal addresses.
  Apple support records, iTunes downloads and connection logs could
  be procured with a subpoena or court order. However, a search
  warrant will be required for the obtaining of content-specific
  downloads.
  “Requests for information not included within the body of the
  signed subpoena, search warrant, or court order will be
  disregarded; all information requested must be in the actual
  legal process document,” said Apple.
  
  Other details that the |US government could demand of the tech
  giant include point of sale transactions, subscriber information,
  mail logs, and mailbox content. However, any deleted mailbox
  content will be unobtainable.
  
  Apple stated that the guidance could be updated but at present it
  stands as it is.
  
  The release of the details follows complaints by Apple and other
  industry heads who say that they have been prevented by providing
  very much information about data access requests.
  
  Apple have clarified that the company will tell users that their
  data is being sought as part of an ongoing criminal investigation
  “unless there is a non-disclosure order,” or in other
  situations where “we believe in our sole discretion that such
  notice may pose immediate risk of serious injury or death to a
  member of the public or the case relates to a child endangerment
  matter”.
  
  According to a Washington Post report at the beginning of May,
  Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, and Google updated their policies to
  routinely notify customers when law enforcement has requested
  information about them.



  Yahoo enacted such a change in July, with the Post reporting that
  companies “found that investigators often drop data demands
  to avoid having suspects learn of inquiries.”"
