"France refuses to block Mistral warship deal with Russia

The French government has said that it will go ahead with 1.2 billion euro ($1.6 billion) contract to supply Russia with two Mistral helicopter carriers because cancelling the deal would harm Paris more than Moscow.


  In the wake of the crisis in Ukraine, the United States had been
  pressing France as well as Britain and Germany to take a tougher
  line against Russia and cancel the Mistral contract.



  But France refuses to link the helicopter carrier deal to the
  US/EU debate over tougher sanctions against Russia.



  A French government official travelling with President Francoise
  Hollande in Azerbaijan Sunday, who asked not be named, told
  reporters that the contract was too big to cancel and that if
  France didn’t fulfill the order it would be hit with penalties.


The Mistrals are not part of the third level of sanctions.
  They will be delivered. The contract has been paid and there
  would be financial penalties for not delivering it.

It would be France that is penalized. It's too easy to say
  France has to give up on the sale of the ships. We have done our
  part, the official said.



  President Hollande also said earlier on Saturday that the
  contract will go ahead.


“This contract was signed in 2011, it will be carried out.
  For the moment it is not in question,” President Hollande
  said on Saturday during a visit to German Chancellor Angela
  Merkel’s electoral district.



  The Russian defense ministry warned Paris in March that it would
  have to repay the cost of the contract plus additional penalties
  if it cancelled the deal.



  EU foreign ministers met in Brussels Monday and expanded their
  sanctions over Russia's stance on the Ukrainian crisis, adding
  two Crimean companies and 13 people to the bloc's blacklist, EU
  diplomats said.



  They have threatened a further widening of sanction if the
  Ukrainian presidential elections do not go ahead on May 25.



  US Secretary of State Victoria Nuland expressed concern over the
  deal on May 8 after US lawmakers had demanded more pressure be
  put on France to stop the contract.


“We have regularly and consistently expressed our concerns
  about this sale, even before we had the latest Russian actions,
  and we will continue to do so,” Nuland told the House
  Foreign Affairs Committee.



  US Secretary of State John Kerry is due to meet the French
  Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius in Washington Tuesday and
  President Barak Obama is expected to raise the issue during a
  visit to France next month to commemorate the D-Day Normandy
  landings.



  US officials have suggested France could sell the ships to
  another buyer or sell them without the advanced technology,
  although it is not at all clear at this late stage who the other
  buyer could be.



  The French deal was Moscow’s first foreign arms purchase since
  the end of the Cold War and was hailed by then President Nicholas
  Sarkozy has an important step forward in French-Russian
  relations. The contract has created some 1,000 jobs in French
  shipyards.



  The first of the two ships, the Vladivostok, is due to be
  delivered by November this year and the second, called
  Sevastopol, will arrive in St Petersburg for further fitting out
  with Russian weapons systems in November 2015 and will join the
  Pacific fleet in the second half of 2016.



  The Mistral can carry up to 16 attack helicopters such as
  Russia’s Kamov Ka-50/52, more than 40 tanks or 70 motor vehicles
  and up to 700 troops. The ships for Russia have been modified
  from the version used by the French navy to operate in northern
  altitudes and ice covered seas.



  The Russian navy will fit the ships with air defense systems and
  rapid fire artillery guns to allow them to go on combat missions
  with fewer escort vessels."
