"Putin calls for end to Kiev’s military op, postponing referendum in E. Ukraine

Ukrainian right-wing groups are behind the recent events in the country, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, adding that Kiev has not disarmed them. He also called on anti-Kiev protesters to postpone a May 11 federalization referendum.

Russia believes that the crisis, which originated in Ukraine
  and is now actively developing in accordance with the worst-case
  scenario, is to be blamed on those who organized the coup in Kiev
  on 22-23 February and still do not care to disarm the right-wing
  and nationalist elements, the president said.



  Direct dialogue between Kiev and anti-government protesters in
  southeast Ukraine is key to ending the crisis, Putin said.



  It is now essential to create “to create the necessary
  conditions for this dialogue,” he added.



  This, however, would require rescheduling the referendum, which
  anti-government activists scheduled on May 11 to determine the
  fate of southeast Ukraine.
  “We are calling for southeast Ukraine representatives,
  supporters of federalization of the country, to postpone the May
  11 referendum to create the necessary conditions for
  dialogue,” Putin said at a press conference with OSCE
  Chairperson-in-Office and Swiss President Didier Burkhalter in
  Moscow.



  In response to Putin’s offer, one of the leaders of the
  self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic, Denis Pushilin, said
  the possibility would be discussed Thursday.



  “We respect Putin’s position. He is a balanced politician. So
  we will submit this proposal tomorrow to the people’s
  council,” he said.



  Putin also described Ukraine's May 25 presidential election as a
  move in the right direction, but stressed the
  importance of constitutional reforms that would have to precede
  any nationwide vote in Ukraine.



  'Russia withdraws troops from Ukrainian border'



  President Vladimir Putin also said that Russia has withdrawn its
  troops from the Ukrainian border.
  
  “We have been told that our troops by the Ukrainian border
  are a concern – we have withdrawn them. They are now not near the
  border, but at locations where they conduct regular drills at
  ranges,” he said.



  Earlier, German Chancellor Angela Merkel suggested holding
  roundtable discussions, a proposal that Moscow fully
  supports, Putin added.



  Moscow and the OSCE agree substantially on the approach to
  resolving the situation in Ukraine, Putin said, adding that
  negotiations had made it clear.


“Moscow is interested in a swift resolution of the crisis in
  Ukraine, taking into consideration the interests of all people of
  the country,” he said.



  OSCE drafting Ukraine roadmap



  In the coming hours, OSCE will offer a “roadmap” on
  Ukraine, Burkhalter said.



  “Our offer now is the following: literally in the next few
  hours we would like to offer a roadmap for the four signatories
  of the Geneva agreements, Burkhalter said, adding that the
  roadmap lays out “concrete steps” to resolve the
  Ukrainian crisis.



  There are four major points, he said: These are the
  ceasefire, the de-escalation of tensions, the dialogue and
  elections. Burkhalter added that the roadmap had been
  discussed earlier in Vienna.



  It comes as a “more pragmatic” alternative to the
  so-called Geneva-2 peace talks on Ukraine, which Burkhalter said
  for now are not being planned to be held.



  Burkhalter also believes that dialogue between Kiev and southeast
  Ukraine is a “realistic prospect.”



  “As for the probability of a national dialogue in Ukraine, I
  think it's quite a realistic prospect, because only Ukrainian
  people need to be involved in determining their own
  destiny,” he said.



  On behalf of OSCE, Burkhalter said that the organization is ready
  to take responsibility for coordination the “roadmap” and
  negotiations with the US and the EU will be taking place soon."
