"Ukraine: What de-escalation means

Ukraine remains the center of attention of the world’s media and policy-makers. Alongside signs of a diplomatic progress, in particular the agreements reached in Geneva on 17 April, the situation on the ground remains complicated.


  At the Geneva meeting, Russia, the US, the EU and the Kiev
  authorities agreed principles that, if implemented, may lead to
  de-escalation. They include disarming unlawful armed groups,
  vacating illegally seized public buildings and spaces, an amnesty
  for all protesters, and the launch of an inclusive, transparent
  and accountable constitutional process. All parties condemned
  expressions of extremism, racism and religious intolerance,
  including anti-Semitism.



  Unfortunately, these provisions have been interpreted in Kiev and
  in Western capitals as commitments undertaken by Russia with
  regard to the situation in eastern Ukraine. It is hard to
  consider this approach as anything but a deliberate distortion of
  reality.



  First, it is wrong to portray the situation as if the main
  problem is in eastern Ukraine. Yes, people have taken up arms and
  seized public buildings. What our Western colleagues don’t want
  to see is that these actions are a reaction to what happened in
  Kiev – to the violent unconstitutional coup, to attempts to
  curtail the status of the Russian language, to calls by
  extremists for punitive operations in the east, to the inability
  of the authorities to end provocation or begin meaningful
  dialogue with Russian-speaking regions. One cannot expect people
  to go home when no steps are being taken to end the threats from
  Kiev and western Ukraine.



  Second, it is unacceptable that the situation in the east is
  described as being the result of Russian meddling. We haven’t
  seen the slightest proof of that. Kiev and Washington are unable
  to corroborate their claims by anything other than the fact that
  the activists speak Russian and hold Kalashnikovs – which is also
  the case for most Ukrainian servicemen in that area. British
  reporters on the ground overwhelmingly agree the protest movement
  has local roots and is manned by local residents. That Russia can
  order them to stop protesting is pure fantasy.



  In short, by blaming eastern activists and Russia, Kiev and their
  Western backers are trying to divert attention from the lack of
  positive steps on their part. Instead of disarming Right Sector
  extremists, the authorities in Kiev are continuing to threaten
  the east with an “anti-terrorist” operation to be
  performed with the participation of “civil society
  activists.” Those are openly recruited by the neo-Nazi Right
  Sector group in Maidan [Independence Square] in Kiev.



  The protest camp in central Kiev is still in place, and the
  authorities have announced that the Geneva agreement doesn’t
  apply to it since it is “lawful.” No amnesty law has
  been passed; on the contrary, many protesters are still in
  detention, including one of the leaders of the movement in
  Donetsk, Pavel Gubarev, who has gone on a hunger strike in
  protest. The constitutional process remains behind closed doors
  with no eastern participation, in spite of clear public proposals
  made by a number of eastern forces as well as the Party of the
  Regions. In this context, it is amazing to read about Western
  politicians praising the efforts of the Kiev government in
  “implementing” the Geneva accords and calling upon
  Russia to follow suit.



  As with many other international and domestic crises, the key
  thing that Ukraine is lacking is trust. The authorities in Kiev
  badly need to take urgent, clear and meaningful steps that will
  (if not generate confidence) at least limit the current level of
  mistrust that the east feels towards them. Time is running out,
  and not only in terms of growing frustration and determination of
  the eastern movement, but also in the light of the dire economic
  situation in Ukraine. If the current leaders continue to see the
  situation exclusively through the prism of “Russian
  aggression” instead of addressing the real problems, they
  risk plunging their country into an economic abyss. Such a
  scenario is deeply troubling for Russia and the Russian people,
  who wish their Ukrainian brothers and sisters well, but the risks
  are increasing with every day that passes.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
