"UNITED NATIONS, May 02. /ITAR-TASS/. Russia will urge to stop violence in Ukraine’s southeastern regions at an extraordinary meeting of the United Nations Security Council, which is opening here on Friday, Russian Permanent Representative at the United Nations Vitaly Churkin told journalists. 


“We shall urge to stop violence,” he said, heading to the meeting.

According to his words, Kiev’s authorities have killed the last hope for viability of the Geneva accords of April 17 on the crisis settlement in Ukraine.

“The Kiev regime, encouraged by its Western sponsors, has resorted to a large-scale use of military force, actually killing the last hope for viability of the Geneva accords,” he said at an extraordinary meeting of the United Nations Security Council convened at Russia’s initiative over the punitive operation staged by the Ukrainian authorities in the southeast Ukraine.

Blood has been flown in Ukraine’s southeastern regions, “reports are coming about those killed and injured,” he noted. “If the criminal undertaking of the Kiev clique is not stopped immediately, there will be no avoiding catastrophic consequences for Ukraine. We have warned about this more thanonces.”

“Those who gave and fulfilled the criminal orders on unleashing bloodshed will bear full responsibility before the Ukrainian people,” Churkin stressed, warning against “any interference into the Ukrainian developments from outside.” He expressed concern over reports that “during the punitive operation of the Ukrainian army and illegal ultranationalist groups, English speech was heard in the air and English-speaking foreigners were seen among those who attacked Slavyansk.”

The Russian diplomat urged Kiev, the United States and the European Union, which signed the Geneva agreements, “not to make criminal mistakes” and “soberly evaluate the gravity of possible consequences of their actions.

The meeting has been initiated by Russia earlier on Friday. United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs Jeffrey Feltman is expected to deliver a report on the situation in Ukraine’s southeastern regions."
