"‘Junta government in Kiev trigger for mine that will explode sooner or later’

The combination of the polices of the government in Kiev and Washington blaming Russia for events is pushing the situation in Ukraine to a critical mass which threaten peace in Europe Willie Wimmer, former Vice President of the OSCE, tells RT.

RT:As it stands at the moment, America
  seems to think the more Russia is punished here, the more sorted
  the situation will be, do you agree with that?

Willie Wimmer: I think the situation is totally
  complicated and everything we know perhaps goes back to the Cuban
  crisis some decades ago.


RT:In that the Cold War continues?

WW: I think it’s even more complicated. It’s not
  only a Cold War it can be outstanding and dangerous and when we
  go back to the Cuban crisis, we know that big powers usually draw
  a red line and for the Americans it had been 90 km away from
  Miami there shouldn’t be a Soviet nuclear arsenal. And here in
  the Ukraine, it’s again similar. The Russian Federation draws a
  red line and they are not interested in having a country direct
  in their neighborhood who might change itself into a living
  danger, like a land mine, like a nuclear arsenal, which is
  located next to my own border. And therefore I think we face a
  critical situation in the next few weeks, perhaps even the next
  days and we only can hope that somebody might intervene in a
  sympathetic way and not create war in Europe.


RT:What’s the attitude in your country, in
  Germany, I mean your closer to the border than America certainly
  is. What do most Germans think about this these days?

WW: I think most Germans, they have really
  problems when they look at the actual situation and there is a
  lot of fear ongoing. This fear might be in a critical situation
  when it comes to the visit of our chancellor to Washington in the
  next week or so and many people think that Angela Merkel might
  arrive in Washington and we still have peace and when she will
  come back to Berlin there might be a different situation, perhaps
  even war. And therefore there’s an ongoing fear in Germany
  because of the situation and they don’t blame Russia for this
  situation, they look on Washington.


RT:And it’s Washington that’s pushing
  Europe here then yeah, as you see it?

WW: It’s not only Washington pushing the
  Europeans, its Washington which organized the events which are
  going on in the Ukraine, and we can go back to remarks being made
  by Mrs. Nuland that they invested more than 6 billion dollars to
  create such a critical mass, which led in the end to the Maidan
  development and therefore they want a return of investment.


RT:You’re a much respected diplomat,
  politician over the years, how do you think this is going to play
  out over the next month or so?

WW: I hope that we have some negotiations for an
  agreement and when we back to the Cuban crisis it was a direct
  link between President Kennedy and Secretary General Khrushchev
  who made it possible to find a solution and therefore I think
  it’s not a question of negotiations, there has to be direct
  contact between Obama and Putin, otherwise we face more than a
  critical situation.


RT:How much of a role does the local
  interim Ukrainian government have here then, it’s kind of out of
  their hands, in Washington’s hands, because we’ve got them
  calling the people in the east here a mob?

WW: I think the junta, as far as I see it in
  Kiev, is playing a dangerous card. They are acting against their
  own population as if they would be enemies, you can’t keep tanks
  and artillery and planes going against your own people, as long
  as they have occupied houses or have barricades. Usually in these
  circumstances this is a question for the police and not for the
  military. And therefore I think the junta In Kiev is like trigger
  for a mine, and this mine will explode sooner or later.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
