"Ukraine’s largest bank suspends work in Donetsk and Lugansk

?Ukraine’s biggest bank, Privatbank, says the situation in the eastern cities of Donetsk and Lugansk has reached a critical point that is too dangerous for staff to go to work. ATM and branch services have been halted.


  In person bank services in the two cities have been closed down
  temporarily as turmoil in Eastern Ukraine poses a threat to staff
  safety, the bank said in a statement on its website today. Staff
  will not continue working in the regions and have been put on
  indefinite leave.



  Pro-autonomy rallies have increased in Donetsk and Lugansk during
  recent weeks as anti-government forces take over buildings and
  Ukrainian forces retaliate.


Over the last 10 days, 38 ATMs, 24 branches of Privatbank
  and 11 cash collection vans have suffered arson, assault and
  wanton destruction in the cities of Donetsk and Lugansk,
  the bank’s website said.



  A bank branch was set on fire in Mariupol in the Donetsk region
  on Saturday May 4 and the week before a security truck was looted
  in Horlivka.


“In the current circumstances we cannot and do not have the
  right to ask people to go to work in the Donetsk and Lugansk
  regions, where armed people break into bank branches and hijack
  security vans in the towns,” Privatbank’s press service
  said, as quoted by Interfax.



  The bank said all bank accounts are safe, and that customers can
  access their money by the internet, and can still use credit
  cards in stores and ATMs in safe regions.



  The bank is co-owned by the Privat commercial group, which is
  co-owned by Ukraine’s third-richest man and now governor of
  Dnepropetrovsk, Igor Kolomoysky, who has openly called for a $10,000
  bounty on the heads of Russian saboteurs. The
  government in Kiev has appointed many oligarchs to rule over
  regions of Eastern Ukraine, where they have less support.
  Kolomoysky's personal fortune is estimated by Forbes at $2.4
  billion.



  Privatbank, Ukraine’s largest by assets, shut down operations in
  Crimea last month, closing all 339 branches on the peninsula.



  The bank manages more than 400,000 state pension accounts and
  220,000 social benefit accounts in the two regions.



  In mid-April, other banks halted operations in the Donetsk
  region, including Raiffeisen Bank, which suspended 5 branches.
  Finance and Credit shut 22 offices, and the First Ukrainian
  International Bank closed its Slavyansk office."
