"US involvement in Ukraine is like ‘Russia getting involved in Puerto Rico’

Though Republicans hold a majority of seats in the House of Representatives and Democrats hold a majority of seats in the Senate, a majority of Americans say that neither party represents them.


  According to a new national survey by Rasmussen, 53 percent of
  likely US voters think that neither political party truly
  represents the American people. The poll shows that the two-party
  system is losing ground with Americans – six months ago, in
  October, only 46 percent of questioned voters said that neither
  party represents Americans.



  RT’s Lindsay France spoke with 2012 Libertarian Party
  presidential candidate Gary Johnson about Americans’ lack of
  representation in the halls of political power.


RT: Now let’s talk about this lack of
  representation. Seventy-two percent say it would be better if the
  country didn’t elect the incumbents to Congress this year in
  November. If they don’t trust either party, the incumbents or the
  new guys, what’s the alternative?


Gary Johnson: Well, first of all, I agree with
  the poll. I think this is what we’re all witnessing. I think term
  limits would really be a silver bullet, the notion that people
  would get in, do the right thing and get out. And then, Lindsay,
  you know, a couple of issues of late that really left all the
  politicians behind: the marriage equality, nobody was standing up
  for that; the marijuana legalization, the state of Washington,
  the state of Colorado moving ahead of all politicians; and then
  if you look at Libya and Syria, the president’s ready to go in
  militarily, Congress is ready to dot the i’s and cross the t’s on
  how to do that and, lo and behold, 80 percent of Americans don’t
  want to do that. Well that’s a good thing. I just wish that
  Congress would catch up to the fact that this spending is not
  sustainable and, if they don’t fix this, we’re going to find
  ourselves in a monetary crisis. We’re going to find ourselves
  without a country.


RT: Well, let’s talk about government trust
  among young voters, those between the ages of about 18 and 29. A
  new poll surveying young Americans’ political attitudes released
  by Harvard University’s Institute of Politics [on] Tuesday, found
  that the millennials’ 'composite trust index,' it’s called, which
  is the level of trust, on average, in six different public
  institutions: the presidency, the US military, the Supreme Court,
  the federal government, and the United Nations, it’s dropped
  dramatically in just two years...from 39 two years ago down to 31
  in mid-April...How do politicians come back from this sort of a
  drop? We’re talking about the young generation, the young voters
  here.


GJ: Lindsay, I know you have statistics there on
  young voters, but I believe that it isn’t just young voters. I
  think that they are the canary, though, in the coal mine, and
  that, if politicians don’t get in touch with this, that, really,
  we’re going to find ourselves...I do already think we’re in a
  catastrophe of sorts in that we’re not being represented. Of
  course, having run for the Libertarian nomination for president,
  I can tell you that whether you’re a Libertarian, whether you’re
  a Democrat, whether you’re a Republican, you have baggage whether
  you have that baggage or not. We’re suing the Presidential
  Debates Commission right now to say if mathematically you are a
  party that can conceivably be elected president of the United
  States with enough electoral votes, then shouldn’t you be
  included in the debates? Just give another voice out there, and
  the more voices we have with input on where this country should
  go, I suggest we’ll all be a lot better off. But it is a
  two-party system, and it’s very exclusionary. I found that out
  face-to-face. It’s not a good thing. More voices, the better. And
  I’m not being hypocritical here. As governor of New Mexico, I
  made it as easy as, I signed legislation making it as easy as
  possible for third parties to be able to run.


RT: Well, let’s talk about these other voices.
  You know, even after the midterm elections, President Obama’s got
  a while left in the White House. He’s facing very low approval ratings right now – extremely low,
  embarrassingly low. What does this midterm election look like?
  Can it change things? Will new voices, depending on who makes it
  in through the midterm elections, change his approval ratings?
  Will they be able to steer him away from some of those bad
  decisions?


GJ: Well, I don’t place blame on Obama, I do
  place blame on the system that is very status quo oriented, that
  more than anything politicians are concerned with getting
  reelected, as opposed to doing the right thing...When people
  don’t vote, it’s a, you know, that’s not a good thing. And maybe
  we’ll see some huge voter turnout. I have no optimism whatsoever
  that anything changes in Washington as a result of these midterm
  elections. Look, I think that the president should be a leader
  and that he should be controversial and that he should press the
  things that he wants to do. And Republicans, they should be
  leading on the issues that they should be strong on, and that
  would be spending and that would be the deficit. And then both
  parties, they ought to come together on issues that everybody
  cares about. I think the majority of Americans – speaking with a
  broad brushstroke – are fiscally responsible and socially
  liberal. I always tell people I’m as conservative a politician as
  you’ve ever met when it comes to dollars and cents, and I’m a
  flaming liberal when it comes to civil liberties. The
  militarization of our police forces, this is happening under the
  guise of both political parties watching this. I mean, it’s
  getting so bad. One-hundred-and-ten million Verizon users are
  being monitored by the NSA. This is happening under the eyes of
  both political parties. There just doesn’t seem to be any hope
  out there.


RT: Well, let’s talk about our foreign
  involvements, which most people will say have been numerous
  lately. As the saying goes, “Go big or go home.” Well, we’ve gone
  big, and now it appears it’s time to go home. According to nearly
  half of the respondents from an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll, 47
  percent of them say the US should become less active in world
  affairs. Now if you look at what’s going on: US involvement in
  Ukraine, the Iraq debacle, troop withdrawal from Afghanistan,
  trying to go into Syria, Libya before that, what is the way
  forward for those who want votes this election season, with all
  of the concern Americans feel on these issues?


GJ: Well, the way politicians address this of
  course is to get tough, drop bombs. I mean, Republicans are all
  about who’s going to drop the first bomb? What about the notion
  of free trade? Gosh, is China really an enemy when they’re, you
  know, our second biggest trading partner? I don’t think so! We
  should be looking at trade with other countries first and
  foremost...You don’t go to war against trading partners. But yet
  we’re always talking about sanctions, and sanctions just don’t
  work. And when you look at Ukraine right now, I think that would
  be analogous to Russia getting involved in Puerto Rico. They’re
  not going to do it. We shouldn’t get involved in Ukraine. There
  are unintended consequences as a result of our military
  interventions. I’m going to suggest that we have hundreds of
  millions of enemies to this country because of our military
  interventions.


RT: Well, let’s talk about Ukraine for a minute.
  Obviously it’s a hot spot in world topics...How should the US
  approach the crisis in Ukraine? Should the US do more or less?


GJ: Well, less! Look, don’t get involved in
  Ukraine! It would be like Russia getting involved in the affairs
  of Puerto Rico. They’re not going to do it! We shouldn’t be
  involved in Ukraine! There’s no national security interest here
  at stake. And I know you’ll hear politicians beating their
  chests, arguing the opposite. Well, I’m going to argue that there
  is no national security interest here at risk, and the government
  has an obligation to protect us against foreign governments that
  might do us harm – this is not one of those situations."
