"Dozens injured, fatalities on both sides in ongoing military op in Slavyansk (VIDEO)

There were fatalities among both Kiev loyalists and local militia members after government troops renewed the crackdown on the defiant eastern Ukrainian protester stronghold of Slavyansk. Over a dozen of people have been killed, including some civilians.

Read RT's live updates on the crackdown in
  eastern Ukraine


  There was a shooting on the outskirts of Slavyansk as
  pro-government troops raided a protester checkpoint on Monday.



  At least 10 self-defense fighters and their unarmed civilian
  supporters have been killed in the latest clashes, the commander
  of Slavyansk self-defense, Igor Strelkov, told RIA Novosti.


“We suffered losses – about 10 people, including civilians,
  20-25 people were injured. I do not know the losses of our
  adversaries; clearly they are smaller than ours, they have armor.
  Most of our losses came from plainclothes [troops], disguised as
  civilians. We fell into their ambush near a petrol station,”
  Strelkov said.



  The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said four of its troops were
  killed and some 30 others injured in Slavyansk during Monday’s
  attack. There are also casualties among the civilian population
  of the city, the ministry added.



  A Ukrainian army helicopter was downed by heavy machine gun fire
  and crashed into a river in the Slavyansk area, the Ukrainian
  Defense Ministry press service has said in a statement. The
  aircraft, identified as Mi-24 helicopter, was hit at 14:30 local
  time (11:30 GMT) while doing a target run during a combat
  mission, the statement said. The pilots survived the crash and
  have been evacuated.



  RT stringer Graham Phillips filmed the aftermath of fighting in
  an area east of Slavyansk, where 12 people were allegedly killed
  on Monday. Locals told Phillips they had to jump to the ground to
  avoid getting caught in the shootout.


[WARNING: GRAPHIC FOOTAGE]


  Slavyansk city hospital reported admitting seven injured during
  the morning. Two of them, suffering from gunshot wounds, died in
  hospital.



  A 30-year-old civilian woman was shot in the head and killed by a
  sniper while standing on her balcony, RT’s Paula Slier reported,
  citing doctors. Slier managed to get to the scene and interview
  the family of the victim.



    Blood still on carpet on balcony. Glass from window everywhere.
    Mother crying hysterically on chair with handkerchief.
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 5, 2014


  Slier also said she witnessed a rocket fired near a TV station
  located in the vicinity of Slavyansk, which is currently held by
  Kiev’s troops.



    Am at TV station #Slavyansk
    -- see two helicopters -- can't get closer as the army's
    blocked the road with a train
  
    — PaulaSlier_RT (@PaulaSlier_RT) 
    May 5, 2014


  Bells tolled in churches around the city to alert residents of
  the incoming threat.



  Intefax cites a militia member as saying that their forces pulled
  back into the city after fighting in the villages of Andreevka
  and Semyonovka near Slavyansk.



  The Security Service of Ukraine spokesperson Marina Ostapenko
  said the renewed operation’s aim is “to establish a security
  perimeter around the regions engulfed by violence.”


    Shops closed, streets deserted in central Sloviansk as fighting
    reported as waging on outside of city now. pic.twitter.com/lLyvy43RrP
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) May
    5, 2014


  There is a report of a separate civilian death near Slavyansk. A
  man driving his car was shot by one of Kiev’s armored personnel
  carriers blocking the city, protester spokesman, Aleksandr
  Maltsev, told Itar-Tass.



    Some report him as dead, these men say the driver of this
    destroyed truck to east, 'missing without trace' - https://t.co/Ph3naTHmDH
    — GrahamWPhillips (@GrahamWP_UK) May
    5, 2014


  The Ukrainian Defense Ministry said it used a helicopter gunship
  to attack railway cars with rockets, saying the militia members
  were trying to convert it into an armored train. Phillips
  reported that the self-defense force in Andreevka village showed
  him a rocket casing left by helicopter fire, but said nobody was
  injured there.



  The continuation of hostilities comes after a tense night, in
  which several people were reportedly injured as Kiev loyalists
  attacked anti-government troops in the city.



  Kiev has intensified attacks on Slavyansk and other
  protester-held cities in eastern Ukraine since Friday morning. So
  far government troops have managed to blockade transport to and
  from Slavyansk, but haven’t made significant territorial gains,
  preferring hit and run tactics.



  Second Geneva talks called for



  The armed standoff between the post-coup government in Kiev and
  the anti-government protesters in the East of the country has
  continued since mid-April.



  Russia has been calling on the Ukrainian government to engage in
  direct dialogue with the protesters, saying it is the only way to
  prevent the violence from escalating. Moscow has called on the
  Western sponsors of the authorities in Kiev to put leverage on
  them and push for negotiations.



  The call for dialogue is shared by Germany. Its foreign minister,
  Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said on Sunday that a second round of
  Geneva talks is needed to stop the bloodshed and produce a
  “clear conclusion as to how this conflict can be brought to a
  halt.” A German government spokesperson later confirmed that
  Chancellor Angela Merkel support the idea.



  The first round of Geneva talks, which involved Ukraine, Russia,
  the US and the EU, ended with a statement calling on disarmament
  of illegal armed groups and renunciation of use of force. But the
  statement was never implemented as the West accused Russia of
  failing to order the Ukrainian anti-government protesters to lay
  down arms, while Moscow said Kiev is trying to legitimize armed
  nationalist gangs instead of disarming them.



  Ukraine said it was “looking positively” at the idea of
  holding a new round of talks. According to a Foreign Ministry
  spokesman, intensive consultations on the issue are underway and
  the new meeting may be held before May 25, the date of scheduled
  presidential elections in Ukraine.



  But Russia’s calls for direct talks between Kiev and the
  protesters appear to be falling on deaf ear, too. On Monday
  acting Ukrainian President Aleksandr Turchinov told Merkel that
  “discussions with those, who raise and use arms against
  Ukrainian citizens are impossible,” referring to the armed
  militias in the East.



  Kiev says it is willing to discuss any possible shift of power
  between the capital and Ukrainian regions only after all the
  seized cities are vacated by the protesters. The protesters do
  not trust the Ukrainian government and believe that reprisals
  rather than negotiation would follow, if they laid down arms."
