"BAKU, May 20 /ITAR-TASS/. Azerbaijan’s authorities will do everything possible to prevent events similar to Ukraine’s Maidan from happening in the South Caucasus country, the head of the Azerbaijani presidential administration’s public and political issues department said Monday.

“The Ukrainian Maidan is a project of some international forces, and they are directly responsible for what is currently happening in that country - civil confrontation, chaos and anarchy, dissolution of the state,” Ali Gasanov told local media.

“If these circles want similar processes to take place in Azerbaijan, then our duty is to prevent that. The authorities of Azerbaijan are ready to give an appropriate response to any step that threatens the state’s security,” Gasanov said while commenting on a recent interview by US Ambassador in Azerbaijan Richard Morningstar to Radio Liberty.

Morningstar in particular said in the interview that should the Azerbaijani government not be more attentive about human rights and democracy, Maidan events could repeat in the Azerbaijani capital Baku.

“If some foreign circles want those events to repeat in Azerbaijan, then there are no doubts that they will be disappointed,” Gasanov said. He stressed that “the domestic and foreign policy of Azerbaijan is pursued not in accordance with desires of some circles but with account for national interests”.

Gasanov said some foreign circles illegally finance political parties, nongovernmental organizations and media in Azerbaijan, trying to direct them against Azerbaijan’s national interests.

Maidan is the name for downtown Kiev's Independence Square, which is the symbol of Ukrainian protests. The word “Maidan” is also used as a collective name for anti-government protests in Ukraine.

Ukraine is in turmoil after a coup occurred in the country in February. New people were propelled to power amid riots as security concerns caused President Viktor Yanukovich to leave the country the same month.

Massive protests against the coup-imposed Ukrainian authorities erupted in Ukraine’s Russian-speaking southeastern territories after the secession of the Crimean Peninsula, which declared independence on March 11 and joined Russia on March 18 following a referendum."
