"Kiev’s ‘punitive op’ in E. Ukraine irreparably severs Geneva accord – Kremlin

By unleashing a ‘punitive operation’ in eastern Ukraine, Kiev has destroyed the last vestige of hope for implementing the Geneva agreement on de-escalating the Ukrainian crisis, Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.


  While Russia is making efforts to de-escalate and resolve
  the conflict, the Kiev regime has chosen military aviation
  strikes on peaceful residential areas and started a punitive
  operation, literally destroying the last hope for the viability
  of the Geneva accords,” Dmitry Peskov said.



  Peskov said the Russian president was closely following the
  events in eastern Ukraine. He gave a reminder that Putin had
  earlier described the possibility of any such operation as a
  “criminal action.”



  “Unfortunately, the latest developments prove the assessment
  was right,” Peskov said.



  Later, speaking on Rossiya-24 TV, Putin’s spokesman said Moscow
  was waiting for Western countries to react to the military
  operation in Slavyansk.



  “We are calling on the European capitals, the United States
  of America to give an assessment of the current events and are of
  course calling on those carrying out airstrikes on residential
  areas to change their mind.”



  Russia’s Foreign Ministry demanded Ukraine “to immediately
  end the punitive operation and any violence against its own
  people, to release political prisoners and to ensure journalists
  can carry out their work freely.” The Ministry’s statement,
  released on Friday, also urges foreign countries to refrain from
  interfering in events in Ukraine.



  Putin’s special representative, Vladimir Lukin, was earlier sent
  to eastern Ukraine to help conduct negotiations on the release of
  the foreign observers held hostage by anti-government protesters.



  “Following the start of the punitive operation, the Russian
  side has lost all contact with Lukin,” Putin’s spokesman
  said.



  RIA Novosti later managed to get through to Lukin’s assistant
  Natalia Mirze, who reassured that everything was fine with the
  special representative.



  Peskov said Kremlin was also “extremely worried” by the
  fact that Russian and foreign journalists were in the “zone
  of the punitive operation.”



  We, of course, demand measures to be taken for ensuring
  their security,” Peskov added.



  Online media outlet, Donbass News, has announced that contact was
  lost with SkyNews and CBS crew, working in eastern Ukraine. The
  news website has given the names of the currently missing
  journalists: Clarissa Ward, Erin Lyall, Andy Srevenson and Geoff
  Mabberley.



  Also on Friday, there was news of contact being lost with a
  Buzzfeed journalist, Mike Giglio and his interpreter. One of the
  messages from Giglio read, “We were captured at the
  checkpoint.” Later, Donbass News reported that Giglio and
  his interpreter were freed.



  The Ukrainian army began a special operation against
  anti-government activists in the eastern town of Slavyansk on
  Friday morning. The city was blockaded by the Ukrainian military,
  with 20 helicopters reportedly deployed to crack down on
  self-defense forces.



  The military operation has resulted in three casualties. Two
  Ukrainian pilots died, after their helicopters were shot down,
  according to the Defense Ministry.



  The self-defense forces in Slavyansk say one of their members has
  been killed."
