"Duma calls on world parliaments to prevent humanitarian disaster in Ukraine

Russian MPs suggest a new international contact group on the basis of PACE that would help stop the armed standoff in Ukraine and prevent the looming humanitarian disaster in the country.


  The address to the parliaments of the world and international
  parliamentary organizations has been prepared jointly by all four
  parliamentary parties and signed by lower house speaker Sergey
  Naryshkin (United Russia) and first deputy speakers Vladimir
  Vasilyev (United Russia), Gennadiy Zyuganov (Communist Party),
  Sergey Mironov (Fair Russia) and Vladimir Zhirinovsky (Liberal
  Democratic Party).



  “The State Duma MPs are outraged by the fact that the current
  Kiev authorities are supporting the escalation of the civil war
  and cruel murders of civilians by raging nationalist radicals.
  Until today the precise number and names of those of those burned
  alive in Odessa have not been disclosed. The numbers range from
  several dozen to several hundred and this is proof of the
  authorities’ unwillingness to tell the truth and put those
  responsible on trial,” the letter reads.



  The MPs also write that it was important to inform all their
  colleagues around the world that dozens of people were killed in
  the towns of Slavyansk and Kramatorsk, as well as other places in
  Ukraine, under the pretext of a counter-terrorist operation,
  which is in reality a punitive raid.



  “Millions of Ukrainian citizens have become hostages of the
  Kiev junta and potential victims of the mass Human Rights
  violations,” the MPs said.



  The Russian politicians stated in the address that it was
  necessary to hold consultations between parliaments in order to
  develop approaches that would contribute to the defusing of
  tensions and restoration of security for all Ukrainian citizens.
  The document also mentioned the road map drafted by the Swiss
  chair of the OSCE on May 7 this year as “worthy of
  attention.”



  The letter will be forwarded to the PACE, the Parliamentary
  Assembly of the OSCE, the Asian-Pacific Parliamentary Assembly,
  Pan-African Parliament and to the Russian Foreign Ministry, which
  will forward it to parliaments of the world through diplomatic
  channels.



  In January this year the State Duma passed a similar statement in
  which it said that the aggravation of the political and social
  situation in Ukraine should be blamed on radical opposition and
  also on certain foreign political circles, who supported the
  opposition that seized the power in the country a short time
  later as a result of a violent coup."
