"55 colleges under investigation for mishandling sexual assault

Fifty-five US colleges and universities are currently under investigation in connection with allegations that they mishandled or ignored sexual assault and sexual harassment complaints, the US Department of Education announced Thursday.


  A variety of schools – small, large, private, and public – are
  named on the list. Ohio State University, the University of
  California Berkeley, and Arizona State University are all
  included, listed alongside prestigious institutions like
  Princeton University, Dartmouth College, and Harvard University
  Law School.



  Women and advocates of sexual assault prevention have long
  criticized the Department of Education (DOE) for failing to
  adequately investigate what some have called an epidemic of
  sexual abuse on American campuses. Before Thursday’s announcement
  the department would only confirm if a school was under review
  upon request.



  The announcement comes days after the Obama administration issued
  recommendations on how to best curb the problem from a federal
  standpoint.



  The DOE announcement made it clear that authorities are
  investigating whether the 55 schools have violated Title IX of a
  1972 law which prohibits discrimination based on gender in all
  education programs and extracurricular activities that receive
  federal aid.



  “We are making this list available in an effort to bring more
  transparency to our enforcement work and to foster better public
  awareness of civil rights,” Assistant Secretary for Civil
  Rights Catherine E. Lhamon said in a statement to the Huffington Post. “We hope this increased
  transparency will spur community dialogue about this important
  issue. I also want to make it clear that a college or
  university’s appearance on this list and being the subject of a
  Title IX investigation in no way indicates at this stage that the
  college or university is violating or has violated the law.”



  Student activists throughout the country have repeatedly failed
  to convince the DOE to offer such a list, with a group called Ed
  Act Now denied in their request to have a complete list of
  schools under investigation in December. The pressure increased
  in January of this year, with a bipartisan group of 39
  congressional lawmakers co-signing a letter to the DOE to give
  the public more insight.



  “It shouldn’t be a guessing game if the Department of
  education has found a history of colleges and universities
  failing to respond to sexual violence,” wrote Representative
  Jackie Speier (D-California). “American families have a right
  to know when that history is present, and institutions should be
  held accountable for commitments they make to the federal
  government to stem the violence on their campuses.”



  The Title IX protection has a variety of applications; it is the
  same law that prohibits schools from gender discrimination in
  sports. Now, victims of sexual assault are using the law to try
  to compel schools to provide adequate protection.



  Little information is known about specific instances, although
  ESPN reported that the University of Michigan
  in Ann Arbor was accused of dropping the ball when investigating
  a student athlete. The school reportedly received complaints
  about Brendan Gibbons, a former kicker on Michigan’s football
  team, although it was a full year before Gibbons was expelled.



  University officials failed to explain the reasoning for the
  year-long lapse, according to ESPN, although spokesman Rick
  Fitzgerald said Michigan has been “fully cooperating”
  with the DOE probe.



  The White House, citing previous research studies, has said that
  approximately one in five female university students are
  assaulted, not accounting for students who never report being
  attacked.



  President Obama recently appointed a task force of Cabinet
  members charged with coming up with new ways for victims to
  report an assault without fear of retaliation. Recommendations
  included identifying confidential victims’ advocates and
  employing better surveys to examine the circumstances where
  sexual assault could be more likely.



  Activists say the biggest issue, though, is the DOE pulling the
  shroud away from what investigations were being conducted.



  “It’s a huge deal,” Caroline Heldman – chair of
  Occidental College’s politics department, who helped file
  complaints against the campus over its handling of sexual assault
  cases – told the Los Angeles Times. “It will inspire more
  survivor activists to file complaints when they see schools of
  every stripe in every part of the country have this
  problem.”



  If a school is deemed to have not complied with the law, the
  department could withhold federal funding, although it has yet to
  do so."
