"West reluctant to point finger at nationalist radicals in Ukraine crisis

Russia is struck by the complacence of the West following violence by pro-Kiev radicals in Odessa, the Russian Ambassador to the UN has said. While the West has condemned the unrest, it has stopped short of pointing the finger at its culprits.


  Following an emergency meeting with the UN Security Council on
  Friday night in connection with the fire at Odessa’s Trade Unions
  House that killed 39 people, Ambassador Vitaly Churkin spoke out
  against Western support of radical elements in Ukraine.
  
  “We were struck by the complacence of the Western members of the
  Security Council towards the actions, including the use of force,
  by the illegitimate Kiev authorities and the ultra-radicals they
  rely on,” said Churkin in a statement.
  
  He added Russia was “profoundly disturbed” by reports
  “thugs” from the extremist, right-wing group Right
  Sector had set the Trade Unions building ablaze.
  “Such actions are reminiscent of the crimes of the
  Nazis,” he said, stressing it is not surprising such
  elements believe they can act with “impunity” when they
  have the backing of the West.
  
  Although the West has moved to condemn the incident, it has
  stopped short of acknowledging it was pro-Kiev radicals that set
  the building ablaze and the victims were pro-federalization
  activists.
  
  The US State Department issued a statement following the event,
  decrying the violence and mayhem that led to so many senseless
  deaths and injuries as “unacceptable.” It made no
  mention of the actions of radical, right-wing elements in
  Ukraine. Sweden’s Foreign Minister went one step further,
  intimating in a Twitter post that the events in Odessa were
  triggered by a “pro-Russian attempt to get control of
  buildings.”


    Horrible with at least 38 dead in Odessa. Seems to have started
    with pro-Russian attempt to get control of buildings. Violence
    must stop!
  
    — Carl Bildt (@carlbildt) May
    2, 2014


  Furthermore, earlier this week EU foreign policy chief Catherine
  Ashton said the state's monopoly on the legitimate use of
  violence needs to be respected.
  Following a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
  President Barack Obama praised the “remarkable
  restraint” of the coup-appointed Kiev government in their
  treatment of the crisis. He also said that the Ukrainian Army’s
  operation in eastern Ukraine was “a move to restore
  order.”


    US mourns with all Ukrainians the heartbreaking loss of life in
    #Odesa.
    Efforts to destabilize #Ukraine
    must end. http://t.co/8U9lai0xjg
    — Department of State (@StateDept) May
    3, 2014


  Russia has decried the acting Ukrainian government’s use of force
  against civilians in the east of the country as a violation of
  the Geneva agreement reached on April 17.
  
  Ukraine’s acting Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said the Kiev’s
  coup-appointed government’s special operation in eastern Ukraine
  “is not going to stop.”
  About 10 people were killed and around 30 were injured during
  recent fighting in the city of Kramatorsk."
