"?Climate change may cause conflict in Arctic, threats to security worldwide – former US generals

Global climate change represents a serious and growing threat to world security, and may be a catalyst for conflict in the resources-rich Arctic region as the ice shield shrinks, a group of retired top US military officers say in a new report.


  The Center for Naval Analyses (CNA) Military Advisory Board says
  in the report – titled 'National Security and
  the Accelerating Risks of Climate Change' – that melting sea
  ice in the Arctic will open shipping lanes for energy
  exploration, setting off public and private competition for
  untapped reserves that lie beneath the historically forbidden
  region.


“Things are accelerating in the Arctic faster than we had
  looked at, said General Paul Kern, chairman of the CNA
  military advisory board. “The changes there appear to be much
  more radical than we envisaged.”


  Russia and China will especially vie for access to oil and other
  natural resources, the report states.


“As the Arctic becomes less of an ice-contaminated area it
  represents a lot of opportunities for Russia,” Kern said,
  adding that budding conflict there is accelerating “faster
  than we had looked at seven years ago.”


  As a new era of resource-pilfering begins in the Arctic, a
  separate study recently released says that public and private
  entities are not at all prepared for an oil spill in the region.



  Approximately 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered natural gas
  and about 15 percent of its untapped oil lies in the Arctic. But
  the majority, 84 percent, of the estimated 90 billion barrels of
  oil and 47.3 trillion cubic meters of gas remain offshore.



  The CNA report echoes a recent cascade of studies and official
  reports that declare, more unequivocally than ever before, that
  global climate change poses vast, complex security risks,
  especially given the inevitable competition for resources amid
  rapid population growth.



  But the retired generals went a step further, calling climate
  change a “threat multiplier” to a “conflict
  catalyst.”


  Last week, US Defense Department Secretary Chuck Hagel
  acknowledged that the opening of sea lanes in the Arctic could
  very well lead to friction among competing nations.


The melting of gigantic ice caps presents possibilities for
  the opening of new sea lanes and the exploration for natural
  resources, energy and commerce, also with the dangerous potential
  for conflict in the Arctic, Hagel said at the Chicago
  Council on Global Affairs.



  For its part, Russia, a leader in Arctic advances, recently
  approved a state-run program aimed at
  encouraging “socio-economic development” in the region.



  Outside of the Arctic, the CNA report warned that climate change
  will cause or exacerbate regional and ethnic conflicts over food
  and water in the developing world.


“In Africa, Asia, and the Middle East, we are already seeing
  how the impacts of extreme weather, such as prolonged drought and
  flooding – and resulting food shortages, desertification,
  population dislocation and mass migration, and sea level rise –
  are posing security challenges to these regions’ governments. We
  see these trends growing and accelerating, the report says.



  According to the authors, rising sea levels will put people and
  food supplies at risk in vulnerable coastal regions such as
  eastern India, Bangladesh, and the Mekong Delta in Vietnam.


“Populations will likely become disenfranchised and even more
  vulnerable to extremists and revolutionary influences,” the
  report states.



  In addition, climate change impacts around the world will create
  more need for American troops, the report says, despite likely
  damage to naval ports and military bases amid flooding and
  worsening weather.



  Just in the last week, researchers have said that the melting of
  the Antarctic ice sheet and a three-meter sea-level rise is
  inevitable, and that increased levels of
  carbon dioxide emissions related to a warming planet will
  weaken nutrition levels in some of the
  world’s staple foods like corn and wheat.



  Last week, the Obama administration’s National Climate Assessment
  stated that the various effects of global
  warming in the United States – among them more flooding and
  longer droughts – are expected to become increasingly
  disruptive across the nation throughout this century and
  beyond.”


  The Pentagon has long considered climate change a major security
  menace. In March, the Defense Department again stressed
  threats to global stability and American hegemony posed by
  climate change in its latest Quadrennial Defense Review,
  declaring that an erratic climate will likely cause increased
  “terrorist activity,” among other impacts."
