"Russia, EU, Ukraine fail to reach agreement at gas talks

Russia, Ukraine, and the European Union failed to reach an agreement on gas supply issues during three-party talks in Warsaw on Friday. Kiev vowed to fulfill its gas transit obligations, but did not say when it plans to repay debt to Russia’s Gazprom.


  According to EU energy commissioner Guenther Oettinger, the sides
  have agreed to hold two more rounds of consultations, in two and
  four weeks. During their next meeting in mid-May, the sides will
  focus on gas prices for Ukraine, Oettinger told journalists on
  Friday.



  Moscow, Kiev, and Brussels gathered in Warsaw to search for a
  solution to the “crisis situation” around Ukraine's
  payments for Russian gas, the Russian Energy Ministry said
  earlier.



  Ukraine's debt to Russian energy giant Gazprom has already
  reached US$3.5 billion, but the sides have so far failed to come
  to a compromise over the price that Ukraine should pay for the
  natural gas supplies.



  “Our Ukrainian colleagues did not say anything about when
  they would pay for the gas they already received and they will
  receive later,” Russian energy minister Aleksandr Novak told
  journalists after the Warsaw talks.



  “Today, we took a decision that Gazprom will not demand
  advance payment in April,” he said, as quoted by Itar-Tass.
  “May 16 is the date when a bill for gas supplies in June will
  be issued. They will have a time span until May 31 to pay it. If
  the bill is not paid by that date, Gazprom will have a
  possibility to limit gas supplies or to supply as much gas as is
  paid for until May 31.”



  The head of the Russian delegation also noted that Ukraine has
  received $3.2 billion from the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
  as part of a $17 billion loan package and could use the money to
  pay its debt.



  Ukraine’s energy minister, Yury Prodan, argued that the IMF loan
  will “switch on” the country’s economy and help it to grow.



  “Then gas consumption will increase and the ability to pay
  for the gas will grow,” Prodan said. State-owned energy
  company Naftogaz will get “balanced financing, and there will
  be very possibility to pay for gas that Ukraine receives from
  external sources,” he added.



  At the same time, Kiev is set to seek a reduction of price for
  Russian gas since it is not able to pay the current rate.



  “We are unable to pay almost $500 per 1,000 cubic
  meters,” Prodan said. The Ukrainian side has repeatedly
  asked the Russian side to return to the price of $268 per 1,000
  cubic meters. Ukraine has agreed to repay its debts at this
  price.”



  If an agreement on the matter is not reached at three-party
  consultations, Kiev will take the case to court, the Ukrainian
  energy official stated. He assured, though, that his country will
  fulfill its liabilities regarding the transit of Russian gas
  through Ukrainian territory to European countries.



  Prodan observed, however, that there is no guarantee of stable
  payments from Kiev even at a price of $268, since “Ukraine
  has not paid a single dollar” toward its March payment, when
  the lower price was still valid.



  Novak believes the issue should be solved in “a civilized way” –
  either based on mutual agreement or through a court.



  EU official Oettinger said there are no doubts that Ukraine does
  have gas debts. However, the total of that debt is subject to
  discussion. He added that the European Commission intends to give
  financial support to Naftogaz and act as a mediator in
  Russia-Ukraine gas price talks.



  Europe wants uniform gas price



  All European Union member states should pay the same price for
  imported Russian natural gas, while common European gas
  infrastructure should also include Ukraine, Georgia, and the
  western Balkans, Oettinger said ahead of Friday's three-party
  talks.



  “We want a uniform gas price in the European common
  market,” Oettinger said, as quoted by Reuters. “The game
  of [divide and rule], or a game of this type proposed by Moscow
  cannot be and will not be accepted by EU member states,” he
  said following a meeting with Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk,
  who promotes the idea of an EU energy union and joint purchase of
  Russian gas.



  Currently, EU members buy Russian gas based on bilateral
  contracts, and prices vary.



  “We have very big differences in terms of gas prices. The
  higher the share of Russian gas in purchases and the bigger
  monopoly Russia has in supplies, the higher the prices are,”
  Oettinger said.



  Ukraine welcomed the idea of introducing a single price, Prodan
  said.



  From April, the price for Russian gas to Ukraine has jumped to
  $485 per cubic meter. That followed the cancellation of two
  discounts it previously received. The first one followed a
  December deal, when Moscow offered Ukraine’s Yanukovich-led
  government a $15 billion loan and a 33 percent discount on
  natural gas – a lifeline to help its faltering economy. The
  natural gas discount was subject to review each financial
  quarter.



  The other discount was based on a 2010 agreement, under which
  Russia guaranteed its neighbor a $100 per 1,000 cubic meter gas
  discount in return for using the Sevastopol port to host its
  Black Sea Fleet. The discount was canceled after the agreement
  was denounced.



  In the winters of 2006 and 2009, Moscow cut off gas transit
  through Ukraine to Europe over unpaid bills to Gazprom, which
  left parts of Europe without heat. Russia claims Ukraine
  illegally siphoned off supplies intended for Europe during that
  time. Ukraine denies the accusation."
