"US oblivion: Obama's weird tour of Asia

At the end of April, President Barack Obama swept through Asia like a storm, leaving behind him all sorts of political debris, as well as confusion, and often even deep embarrassment.


  There were speeches clearly aimed at swelling anti-Chinese and
  anti-North Korean sentiments, and there were promises to ‘defend’
  certain countries, including South Korea and Japan, although both
  of them appear to be more belligerent than their communist
  alleged adversaries.



  There was immediate reaction from Pyongyang, calling South Korean
  President Park Geun-Hye a “prostitute,” and there was an ice-cold
  reaction from Beijing, calling on the US and Japan to “abandon
  their cold war mentality.”



  The US language was, as always, patronizing, even insulting – as
  in The New York Times’ report:


“Jeffrey A. Bader, who was the senior China adviser on the
  National Security Council until 2011, said: 'The message is:
  Don’t think that what Putin is doing in eastern Ukraine is so
  brilliant that you should be inspired by it. Don’t think that
  this is a model that could work for you.'”


  This kind of unsavory preaching is naturally despised in China
  and in many other countries.



  But Obama’s visit was disastrous on many other fronts, too. There
  were trade deals proposed that never fully materialized,
  including those between the United States and Japan. There were
  bilateral trade agreements signed between the US and Malaysia,
  but the 12-country Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP), which commits
  countries to lower import tariffs and therefore horrifies local
  producers, never really materialized.



  What actually occurred was the signing of what Reutersdescribed
  as “a 10-year military pact with the Philippines that opens
  the way for US troops, planes and warships to have greater access
  to bases in the Philippines.”



  Officially, it was to ‘protect’ the Philippines from the rising
  ‘threat’ of China. Although many of the intellectuals in Manila
  see the United States as pitching southeast nations against its
  great neighbor.



  Eduardo C. Tadem, a leading Philippine academic and professor of
  Asian studies at the University of the Philippines, commented for
  this report:


The Obama administration has not departed substantially from
  the policies of its predecessors as far as foreign policy is
  concerned. Given this, it does not possess the moral authority to
  lecture China on the proper behavior of a big power in the
  Asia-Pacific region. Granted that China has not been on its best
  behavior with respect to the territorial disputes it is embroiled
  with in the region, it is the US, on the whole, that has done
  much more damage against Asian peoples and societies with its
  imperial policies in both the economic and political spheres.
  Neither does it have the moral authority to lead Asian societies
  in charting a new economic order given its own failed economy
  with high unemployment and continually rising inequalities.


  Malaysia became a brand new addition to the list of US ‘allies’
  in the region, although, to what extent, still remains to be
  seen.



  As I landed at the habitually super-efficient Kuala Lumpur
  International Airport on April 26, long lines formed queues
  before the immigration counters, and arriving passengers were
  fingerprinted – something that is very rarely done in Malaysia.



  The rail network had collapsed, express trains were running on
  local tracks, and I was told that many of the roads in the
  capital had been blocked.



  Overall, in Malaysia, the entire ‘presidential charade’ was
  thoroughly embarrassing, even from the point of view of the
  former ruler of the country, and one of the most outspoken
  critics of the West on the Asian continent, Dr. Mahathir Mohamad.
  The former prime minister particularly distrusted the proposed
  TPP or TPPA. Malaysian filmmaker and TV producer Azreen Madzlan
  shared her experience with me:


“According to former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tun Dr
  Mahathir Mohamad during an interview with a local business
  channel Capital TV, for the show that I was producing, Malaysia
  should not be compelled to sign the Trans-Pacific Partnership
  Agreement (TPPA) just because of President Obama’s visit to
  Malaysia this weekend. Tun M who has openly roasted Najib’s
  administration for its intention to sign on with the
  non-transparent deal continues to warn that TPPA is a controlled
  trade agreement put together by an impoverished nation trying to
  exploit the natural resources of other countries.”


  But the Malaysian media had chosen to welcome the supreme leader
  of the Western world with loud fanfares, even using the most
  poetic words.



  Huge headlines shouted from the top of most of the local dailies:
  'Hello Malaysia,' the self-proclaimed 'people's paper,' the
  Sunday Star, wrote as it depicted the grinning face of Barack
  Obama. The paper then commented: “Flashing his
  infectious smile, President Barack Obama stepped out of Air Force
  One, gave his customary right handed “hello” wave – and charmed
  every one of the dignitaries who met him as he arrived for his
  official visit to the country. It will be a busy day for him
  before he leaves for Manila tomorrow.”


  Western media opted for a wide range of attitudes, from hardcore
  propaganda to the phlegmatic style adopted by The New York Times:


“On Sunday, President Obama visited Malaysia to underscore
  how much has changed in the past 16 years – not least in the
  country’s attitude toward the United States, which has evolved
  from deep suspicion, verging on contempt, to a cautious desire
  for cooperation.”


  Legendary Malaysian political activist Hishamuddin Rais (he
  identifies himself as a ‘non-government individual’) wrote for
  this report:


“Obama is trying to recreate the atmosphere of the Cold War
  in Asia in particular and globally...Obama’s trip to Malaysia in
  particular is aimed at the Malaysian leadership to open up and
  allow access to the Malaysian market. At the same time America is
  keen to have a military arrangement with Malaysia, i.e. the
  possibility of having a base. This is a move partly to control
  the Southeast Asian market and also to contain what Americans
  term as the danger of China. Obama is trying to create a wedge
  between ASEAN nations and China. In Malaysia in particular, with
  the weak government of Najib Razak, Obama will force Najib to
  sign the TPPA trade agreement. It is a fact that TPPA will be
  destructive to the domestic market.”


  There was plenty of clich? propaganda talk from US officials
  about ‘defending democracy,' about freedom and trade, and about
  all those ‘terrible countries’ that the ‘benevolent and wise
  West’ has to ‘deal with.'



  The increasingly aggressive role of the United States and the
  'Western world’ has not been discussed in the suddenly
  over-polite local media outlets. It should have been. Because
  between the lines, it was clear that the goal of Obama’s journey
  was to flex muscles, and to show Asia who is still in charge
  here.



  And of course, to re-pledge support for the most obedient ones,
  like Japan and the Philippines, over their policy towards China,
  or in the case of Japan, its open hostility towards the great
  neighbor.



  It is essential that the Asian countries that are now willing to
  collaborate with the West are actually becoming co-responsible
  for what can be best described as the imperialist,
  neo-colonialist, even fascist, adventurism of North America and
  Europe.



  In the future, history may judge them very harshly!



  The West, including the United States, has embarked on all sorts
  of genocidal projects all over the Asia Pacific region for
  centuries. It has terrorized this part of the world with
  tremendous force and determination, from Vladivostok to East
  Timor.



  Be it not for the servility of Asian leaders, and for the total
  manipulation of history, Air Force One would have been met with
  jet fighters and interceptors – not with flowers and national
  anthems.



  The problem is that in the Asia Pacific region, in many parts of
  it at least, the countries are governed by thoroughly shameless
  ‘elites’ (read thugs, bandits), and these individuals are united
  with Western economic and political ‘leaders' in their
  determination to plunder and mug everything that grows, hides
  below the surface, and even walks and talks.



  This is especially true about the places like the Philippines and
  Indonesia, but also about Thailand, Cambodia, and even, to a
  lesser extent, South Korea.



  Japan is an exception, as it has willingly and shamelessly been
  exchanging its independence for a rich and comfortable quality of
  life, willingly accepting the role of an obedient, sclerotic, and
  depressed (but extremely well paid) servant of the West, on the
  Asian continent.



  David McNeill, a leading expert on Japan and a Professor at
  Sophia University, recently explained during our conversation and
  the filming of my Okinawa documentary, in Tokyo:


“Japan, after the Second World War, aligned itself very
  quickly with America… And Japan’s military alliance with America
  is also accompanied with, what critics would say, its subservient
  attitude towards Washington.”


  Let’s just revisit a few of the most horrifying atrocities the
  West performed in the Asia Pacific region, in the last hundred
  years or so.



  Both British and US forces occupied, brutally, the city of
  Vladivostok in Russia's Far East after the Bolshevik Revolution.



  China was plundered and colonized by European forces, brutally
  and relentlessly.



  Korea was terrorized by mainly North American troops, with the
  most horrific toll on the local, mainly civilian population, with
  an estimated death toll of over four million people.



  During WWII, Japan endured firebombing and the carpet-bombing of
  its cities, including Tokyo, as well as basically, two nuclear
  experiments against its population in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.



  The French barbarically tortured, raped, and mutilated the people
  of Vietnam, but also those of Laos and Cambodia. The savagery
  exceeded even that of the later US ‘involvement,' as many local
  people, whilst I lived in Hanoi for three years, explained to me.



  In 'Indochina,' the US, of course, bombed to ashes entire cities,
  poisoned the countryside, raped the female population of entire
  villages, and committed atrocities comparable only to those they
  themselves had earlier committed in Korea. Historians are still
  arguing about the death toll: Was it six million or ten million,
  during what they called the ‘Vietnam War’ and the ‘Secret War in
  Laos?' (In that part of the world, that genocide is squarely
  identified as the ‘American War’).



  The US also made sure to open the doors to the Khmer Rouge in
  Cambodia (by carpet-bombing most of the Cambodian countryside
  into the stone ages), later vocally demanding their return to
  power, from the floor of the United Nations and other
  organizations. All that, of course, happened after Vietnamese
  troops had kicked out Pol Pot’s boys and girls from power (the US
  considered it a great crime).



  Kissinger had it very clear: He suggested that “anything that
  flies should be used against anything that moves,” and he
  had it his way. And he never faced a firing squad for this,
  although his tactics were not too different from those employed
  by the German Nazis.



  In the Philippines, the US committed much greater atrocities than
  Japan (including the Balanginga massacre), but a brainwashing
  campaign, and the servility of most of the local media, made it
  impossible to discuss these topics openly.



  The Philippines were brutally colonized by both Spain and the
  United States, but the US propagandists have managed to
  re-narrate the entire history of the archipelago.



  British rule in what is now Malaysia and Singapore was very far
  from benevolent.



  The Thai Western ally murdered its communists, as well as student
  protesters, and placed its territory at the disposal of the West
  during the Vietnam War.



  Indonesia was repeatedly attacked by the United States from its
  bases in the Philippines, during the reign of the progressive and
  anti-Western President Sukarno.



  The US-sponsored military coup brought the military junta to
  power, and some two to three million Indonesians were murdered –
  mainly communists, Chinese citizens, and intellectuals. Fascist
  Indonesia then occupied (with the support of the West) tiny East
  Timor, where some 30 percent of the population lost their lives
  in a horrific genocide. Western media hushes up coverage of the
  ongoing genocide against the Papuan population, as it greatly
  benefits the interests of Western mining companies.



  Still, collaboration with the US appears to be an attractive
  option to many governments in the region.



  China is watching, and, not surprisingly, it appears that it does
  not like what it sees at all. Russia, another great ‘Asian’ power
  is even more outraged. North Korea is, as always, ‘ready.'



  Mr. Obama may count on the weak and submissive allies, but Asia
  is changing. It is evolving. It is watching. It may soon begin
  saying “No.”



  Mr. Obama decided to visit South Korea but not China.



  Does it matter? Maybe...but for how long?



  If you come or do not come, we will be here, said
  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang.


Andre Vltchekis a novelist,
  filmmaker and investigative journalist. He can be reached through
  hiswebsiteor
  hisTwitter.

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
