"UK child mortality rate one of the highest in Western Europe – study

Britain has one of the highest mortality rates in Western Europe for children under five, new research has revealed. Experts say factors like poverty, deprivation and smoking during pregnancy contributed to the premature deaths of 3,000 children in 2012.


  Infants born in Great Britain are more likely to die before their
  fifth birthday than any other country in Western Europe, apart
  from Malta, according to a study by the University of Washington
  and published in the Lancet journal.



  The study calculates the mortality rate at 4.9 deaths for every
  1,000 births in the UK, which is 25 percent higher than the
  Western European average. The study’s authors said they were
  surprised that a developed country that had pioneered a public
  health system had higher rates than poorer countries like Greece
  and Cyprus.



  The UK’s mortality rate is comparable with those of Poland and
  Serbia.


We were surprised by these findings because the UK has made
  so many significant advances in public health over the
  years, Dr Christopher Murray, the study’s principal
  director told The Guardian. The higher than expected child
  death rates in the UK are a reminder to all of us that, even as
  we are seeing child mortality decline worldwide, countries need
  to examine what they are doing to make sure more children grow
  into adulthood.


  The study highlights the fact that although the childhood death
  rate fell between 1990 and 2013, the speed of the drop has slowed
  recently.



  Poverty and deprivation caused by cuts in welfare contribute to
  the large amount of deaths among children under five in the UK,
  suggests the study. Infants are more likely to die if they come
  from a poorer family, or have parents that smoked and drank
  during pregnancy.



  Editor-in-chief of the Lancet, Richard Hooton said that one of
  the main factors contributing to the high rate of mortality was
  the poor organization of children's health services in the
  UK.

“Until our politicians begin to take the health of children –
  the health of the next generation of British citizens – more
  seriously, newborns and older children will continue to suffer
  and die needlessly,” he told the Times.



  The countries with the least deaths of infants under five in
  Europe are Iceland, Andorra and Sweden. In addition, countries
  that surpassed Britain outside Europe included Australia, Israel,
  Japan, Singapore and South Korea.



  The UK has been hit hard by the financial crisis in Europe and as
  a result has seen a rise in poverty and the use of food banks
  across the country. According to The Trussell Trust, Britain's
  largest food bank charity, 913,138 people received emergency food
  aid from the organization in 2013-2014, compared to just 346,992
  in 2012-2013 – marking an increase of 163 percent. The
  organization has said the coalition government’s harsh cuts to
  Britain’s welfare system have had a significant effect on the
  poorer population."
