"NATO’s second-in-command says Russia is now an enemy, not a partner

NATO Deputy Secretary General Alexander Vershbow now says that the allied group has been compelled to treat Russia “as more of an enemy than a partner,” according to an Associated Press report published Thursday.


  The 61-year-old former United States ambassador to Russia
  reportedly told journalists this week that Moscow’s role in the
  ongoing crisis in Ukraine has forced NATO to reconsider the
  alliance’s opinion on Russia, and that additional troops may soon
  be mobilized to the region as tensions worsen.



  AP journalist Robert Burns wrote on Thursday that Vershbow said the
  Kremlin’s perceived part in the recent events in Ukraine
  “marks a turning point in decades of effort by NATO to draw
  Moscow closer.”



  NATO’s second-in-command reportedly told journalists that the
  alliance is now considering new measures meant to counter any
  future acts of aggression on the part of Russia aimed at partner
  nations, and soon could deploy a larger number of combat forces
  to Eastern Europe.



  Journalists reporting for Civil.Ge wrote on Thursday that Vershbow told the
  audience at a panel discussion in Washington, DC one day earlier
  that NATO should deploy “defensive assets to the
  region.”


“We need to step up our support for defense reforms and
  military modernization of Russia’s neighbors, and not just of
  Ukraine, but also Moldova, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan,”
  Vershbow said, according to the Civil Georgia site.



  NATO should think about “upgrading” joint exercises
  among partner nations, the site quoted Vershbow as saying during
  the event, while acknowledging that deploying forces to Georgia
  would be a “controversial” maneuver.


“It is also important for the United States to show
  leadership… to make sure that next steps that NATO will make, for
  example at the summit in September, will be adequate response to
  what’s happening in Ukraine,” the Georgian Defense Minister
  Irakli Alasania said during the discussion.


“The West should now seize the opportunity and create the
  reality on the ground by accepting membership of aspirant
  countries, by putting purely defensive assets in aspirant
  countries and predominantly in Georgia,” Alasania added.
  “What is important now is to put some deterrent capabilities
  on the ground like air defense and anti-armor capabilities that
  will give us a chance to defend our freedom, because we know that
  if things go wrong at this point no one is coming to save us;
  we’ve seen that in 2008.”


  Earlier this week, Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu said
  the builduip of NATO troops near Russia’s border was “unprecedented.” Weeks earlier, the US Air
  Force commander in charge of NATO’s military presence in Europe
  said that US troops may soon be deployed to the region as tensions continue to
  worsen near the border between Ukraine and Russia.



  For weeks now, officials in Washington and Kiev have claimed that
  the recent separation of Crimea from Ukraine and the rash of
  uprisings in the country’s eastern part are the direct result of
  destabilization efforts spearheaded by Moscow, and both the US
  and European Union have introduced several rounds of sanctions
  against Russia as a result. The Kremlin has refuted these claims
  and rebuffed the sanctions, however, and earlier this week
  Russian Pres. Vladimir Putin accused the White House of orchestrating the
  Ukrainian crisis.


“I think what is happening now shows us who really was
  mastering the process from the beginning. But in the beginning,
  the United States preferred to remain in the shadow,” Putin
  said this week."
