"Moscow will not bargain with Kiev over Crimea's water supply – Russian resources minister

Russia will not engage in political bargaining with the Ukrainian government over its decision to cut off Crimea's water supply, Russian natural resources minister Sergey Donskoy said.

“The situation clearly shows that Kiev is unfriendly towards
  the people of Crimea. We’re not surprised by this as recent
  developments characterize the regime in Kiev as
  anti-popular,” Donskoy said, as quoted by Itar-Tass news
  agency.
  
  Moscow will not take part in political bargaining because
  “it’s the ordinary people who suffer” from water
  shortages, the minister said as he arrived in the city of
  Sevastopol.
  
  Donskoy stressed that Crimea's agricultural industry is most
  affected in the current situation, but added that “we’ll find
  ways to compensate the water demands.”“In Crimea, a lot of water is wasted. It’s dumped into the
  sea. There’s no water recycling in place, which would enable us
  to use water for technical needs after preliminary
  processing,” he said.
  
  The minister added that Crimea's water supply system is in rather
  bad shape after decades of Ukrainian rule.
  
  “Today we examined the Feodosiya reservoir where over 70 percent
  of the water is unusable,” he explained.
  
  According to the minister, the water supply system in Crimea will
  be modernized by the Russian government, taking into account the
  specific features of each region of the peninsula.
  
  He added that groundwater reserves will help satisfy Crimea's
  needs.


“But we must use all available options,” the minister
  said, underlining the importance of reconstructing the existing
  facilities. Donskoy said this will be less expensive than
  erecting large desalination plants for sea water, which he called
  “the last option to be considered.”
  On Saturday, the coup-imposed Kiev government cut off water
  supply through the North-Crimean Channel, which delivers water
  from the Dnieper River to Crimea.
  
  Crimea’s Prime Minister Sergey Aksenov was quick to state that
  “there are no problems with drinking water. Agricultural
  producers will be compensated for their losses.”
  Crimea, which is dependent on Ukraine for 85 percent of its
  freshwater, offered an advance payment for the water from the
  Dnieper River. However, the talks were sabotaged by Kiev.
  
  The relevant documents were sent to Ukraine's water management
  agency on five occasions, but were returned as
  “far-fetched” excuses, Vitaly Nakhlupin, head of the
  Permanent Economic Committee of the Crimean Parliament, said.
  
  The ultranationalist coup in Kiev prompted the Crimean peninsula
  – home to an ethnic Russian majority – to hold a referendum on
  its future within Ukraine.
  
  On March 16, over 96 percent of Crimean voters decided to cut
  ties with Kiev and rejoin Russia.
  
  Crimea and the city of Sevastopol were officially accepted into
  the Russian Federation on March 21, with President Vladimir Putin
  signing a decree confirming the territories as part of Russia."
