"Slavyansk kids and women cross Russian border on foot after Ukraine seizes bus

A bus carrying women and children from Slavyansk, including toddlers, was stopped at a border checkpoint by Ukrainian guards. The refugees managed to cross into Russia on foot and find new transport.


  The incident happened on Friday night at a border crossing
  between Ukraine’s Donetsk region and Russia’s Rostov region. The
  bus was carrying people from Slavyansk, the city that has become
  the scene of constant battles between local militia and troops
  loyal to Kiev.



  There were 38 refugees on board, including 21 children aged
  between 2 months and 12 years, and 17 women, Rostov region
  spokesman Aleksandr Titov told Itar-Tass. As the vehicle was
  seized, they went across the border on foot with the help of
  Russian border guards.


“They managed to go through, everyone is alive and
  well,” the Russian official said.



  Local authorities housed the Ukrainians in a border city for the
  night and provided two buses for transportation.



  Meanwhile a group of some 200 children from Slavyansk have been
  evacuated to Russia’s Crimea. The children, aged between 8 and
  16, are being housed in various summer camps on the peninsula.



  Their journey was not entirely trouble free either. On Friday,
  there were reports that buses carrying the evacuated children
  were not allowed to cross the border by Ukrainian guards and had
  to turn back. But now all of them are safe in Russia.



  RT spoke to some of the kids, who will spend at least a month in
  Crimea, about how they feel after leaving their home city that
  has become a battlefield.


“The city often comes under mortar shelling. People get hurt
  as a result. A mortar shell splinter the size of a walnut hit my
  grandpa’s leg and pierced the bone. If it went a little deeper,
  it could hit an artery, and that would be it for him,” one
  of the evacuees, Vladislav, said.


“It’s so unusually calm and quiet here compared to Slavyansk.
  No explosions going off. It was scary. Nobody expected that
  things like that could start in our city, which was never famous
  for anything,” another one, Maria, said.


“I was very scared. There were explosions. My dad just
  celebrated his birthday and he was woken by the sound of shelling
  on that day. I’m very glad I’m here now. It’s calm here,”
  said Darya, a girl in her early teens.


“What was frightening is when a shell flew by your window or
  you heard shots fired nearby. That’s what frightening,” said
  a boy called Artyom.



  While Kiev’s troops say they are not targeting civilians in their
  onslaught on the militias, artillery fire regularly hits
  residential areas in Slavyansk. On Friday morning, several shells
  hit a children’s policlinic and a hospital in the city. Earlier
  in the week a kindergarten and a school were damaged. So it’s no
  surprise that Slavyansk residents want to get their children away
  from the city.



  The evacuation to Crimea was used by Kiev to mount some
  allegations against the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s
  Republic. A spokesman for the military operation, which Kiev
  calls an “anti-terrorist” one, claimed that militia fighters
  wanted to escape the city under the cover of the humanitarian
  convoy or stage a provocation.


“The kids are in danger due to a threat of provocation on the
  part of the terrorists. A column with so many children is a
  target for a terrorist attack. We don’t need a new Beslan,”
  Vladimir Seleznyov said.



  Earlier the commander of the operation accused the militia of
  using civilians as human shields.



  Kiev authorities have a habit of accusing those opposing them of
  various atrocities, often not bothering to back them with proof.
  The Friday hospital shelling was also blamed on militias by the
  Ukrainian troops, who said the self-defense squad in Slavyansk
  wanted to frame them.


“This propaganda strikes me as very ham-fisted and, frankly,
  absurd,” Nebojsa Malic from the R. Archibald Reiss institute
  for Serbian studies commented for RT. “If the people in
  Slavyansk wanted to really make a propaganda bid out of it, they
  would have tried to keep the civilians in and emphasize their
  suffering to the world media.”

“It’s much more likely that they are just trying to get the
  children away so that they don’t fall victim to the
  indiscriminate shelling by the government forces.”

Departure from Slavyansk:

Video:
  /files/news/27/b9/80/00/1678553_children_480p.mp4

Slavyansk children arriving in the Crimean city of
  Sevastopol:

Video:
  /files/news/27/b9/80/00/1678873_ukr_children_480p.mp4"
