"Duma motion attacks Ukrainian detention of Russian reporters

The Russian Lower House calls the detention of Russian reporters in Ukraine a crime against the freedom of speech, and urges international journalist groups and human rights organizations to denounce the Kiev authorities.


  An official State Duma motion on the holding of Russia's Lifenews journalists
  Marat Saichenko and Oleg Sidyakin has been prepared by the
  majority United Russia caucus. It was supported and jointly
  drafted by all four parliamentary factions.



  It was passed unanimously on Wednesday afternoon.



  The document reads that the reporters detained in Ukraine and
  charged with terrorism fell victim to a provocation and should be
  released immediately.



  “The employees of one of Russia’s mass media institutions
  were engaged in spreading truthful information from the places of
  events from the very beginning of the Ukrainian crisis in
  November-December of 2013. Now they fell victim of a provocation
  by the self-appointed Kiev authorities who find it extremely
  undesirable to allow independent reporters to places of punitive
  operations conducted by the national guard, the ultra-radicals
  from the Right Sector movement, and those of the Ukrainian
  military who are ready to execute the unlawful orders and open
  fire on civilians,” the document reads.



  Russian MPs added that they were sure that the accounts of
  journalists reporting on the scenes of crimes
  committed by those who were sent by the Kiev government to wage a
  war against their own people, would become the basis of a future
  criminal investigation and prosecution of those guilty of
  violation of basic human rights, including the right to life.



  “The arbitrary moves against the representatives of the mass
  media is becoming a tradition of the current Kiev authorities who
  only emptily declare their adherence to the principles of
  democracy, of which the freedom of the press is an inseparable
  part,” reads the message. Russian deputies also said that
  the level of arbitrariness in Ukraine is increasing as the date
  of the presidential elections is coming nearer.



  The State Duma demanded that the Ukrainian authorities
  immediately released the imprisoned Russian journalists and
  punish all those responsible for violating their right to perform
  their professional duty.



  In connection with the incident the Russian parliamentarians also
  called upon the PACE, foreign governments and international
  organizations to intervene and raise their voices to protect the
  Russian reporters.



  “We expect resolute actions aimed at the release of the
  Russian journalists on the part of the Western capitals without
  whose silent consent and direct approval the Kiev authorities
  would never dare to launch repressions against the journalistic
  activities,” the document reads.



  Marat Saichenko and Oleg Sidyakin were detained by pro-Kiev
  troops on Sunday in the turbulent Donetsk Region. The Ukrainian
  Security Service accused the reporters of aiding terrorism
  claiming that government agents had found a portable
  surface-to-air missile in their car. The whereabouts of the two
  reporters are currently unknown.



  The detention has already sparked outrage from Moscow, calls for
  their swift release from the OSCE, and from the public in Russia
  and other countries who supported that #SaveOurGuys hashtag campaign launched by Lifenews shortly
  after the incident.



  Russian presidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov said on
  Wednesday that “all possible tools” were being used for the
  quickest release of the reporters, including the Foreign
  Ministry, the OSCE mechanisms, the rights ombudsman and NGOs."
