"Smoking, not spying: Russia intercepts Lithuanian cigarette-smuggling drone

A Lithuanian drone that Russia detained over its soil two weeks ago was not on a spy mission after all, Russia's Federal Security Service said on Friday. Instead, it was smuggling cigarettes.


  The homemade drone aircraft was carrying boxes with up to 10
  kilograms of tobacco stuck to it with sticky tape. The FSB
  estimated that the body of the drone cost about 300 rubles (less
  than US$10).
  
  The amateur drone with a four-meter wingspan rose to an altitude
  of up to 2,000 meters and dropped the smuggled cigarettes in a
  designated area.
  
  A Russian-Lithuanian criminal group investigating the incident
  determined that the “aircraft” had GPS installed, allowing the
  drone operator to control the flight via a 3D card from the
  ground.
  “It was the first time that a drone controlled by a foreign
  operator had been detained in the territory of Kaliningrad
  region,” FSB spokesman Oleg Dzhurayev said.
  
  A Lithuanian man was responsible for controlling the aircraft
  from Kaliningrad and has since been detained, according to RBK
  news agency.
  
  He is said to have crossed the border into Kaliningrad legally.
  Upon arrival, he reportedly met a 51-year-old resident of
  Kaliningrad region who helped him buy the cigarettes to smuggle
  into Lithuania.
  
  The supply that the Lithuanian tried to smuggle home contained
  some 500 packs of cigarettes worth about 25,000 rubles (nearly
  $700). The reason behind the illegal activity is simple – the
  same cigarettes in Lithuania are almost twice as expensive, so
  tobacco smuggling is quite popular on the black market.
  
  The Kaliningrad border service is now checking whether the drone
  could have been used for purposes other than just cigarette
  smuggling, as it has a camera that can take pictures and
  broadcast videos online.
  
  Investigators earlier suggested the drone was built and launched
  by a criminal organization operating in Russia and Lithuania, and
  may have been used for other unlawful purposes."
