"'Eastern Ukrainians aren’t seeking separation, they’re expressing their will'

The referendum results in eastern Ukraine are sending a message that their rights are not adequately protected and recognized by the Kiev government, former Indian Foreign Minister Kanwal Sibal told RT.

RT:The region of Lugansk says it will now
  ask for UN recognition. Do you see any chance of that?

Kanwal Sibal: I don’t think that will happen,
  but I heard that people who held the referendum are saying that
  they still remain part of Ukraine. While it is self-determination
  at the moment, evidently they are not thinking of a separate
  state. Therefore, there is no occasion for them to go to the
  United Nations – if this is the basis of the referendum, that
  will be premature. And certainly in the UN there is no chance of
  getting approval of this because the US, the Europeans and many
  others will not approve this and there is no question of approval
  by the Security Council. But the people in eastern Ukraine have
  made a very strong point that they don’t recognize the legitimacy
  of the Kiev government and an equal right to express their
  democratic feelings, as those who were agitating in Kiev a few
  weeks earlier, and that their wishes must be taken into account
  and that May 25 elections won’t be legitimate as it will not
  incorporate the eastern part of Ukraine in the election process.



  I think they have been wise at the moment, not declaring that the
  referendum means that they are going to separate from Ukraine.
  Unless of course diplomacy works and they are able to find a
  solution by changing the constitution and [carrying out] reforms
  of the system which recognize the legitimate and autonomous
  rights of the eastern Ukrainians, they can always use this
  referendum as a handle to prove that the vast majority of the
  eastern Ukraine are not in favor.


RT:The Donetsk and Lugansk regions have
  voted for the right to self-determination. Is this likely to
  change anything for them?

KS: I think they have clearly sent a powerful
  message not only within Ukraine but also to Europe and the world
  in general that there is a huge internal problem in Ukraine and
  the rights of the eastern Ukrainians are not being adequately
  protected and recognized by the central government in Kiev on
  which there seems to be very little pressure of the US and the EU
  to find a solution through dialogue.



  The Geneva process has created the basis for some kind of a
  dialogue but there is a temptation by the Kiev government to use
  force against the eastern Ukrainians. That is not going to
  resolve anything and it will be a huge pity for the Ukrainians,
  for the region, for the world, if the situation in Ukraine
  descends into some kind of a civil war. It will be extremely
  painful for Russia.


RT:Kiev and its Western backers say this
  referendum is illegal. Is this a statement based on law or
  politics, do you think?

KS: I think they have no reason to say whether
  it is legal or illegal because people in the eastern Ukraine are
  not seeking their approval. They are expressing their political
  wishes in eastern Ukraine and they have a right to do so. This is
  an internal process, they are not asking for international
  recognition, so I can’t see why the Europeans or the Americans
  should make a pronouncement on what is happening internally. In
  fact, their reference should be directed toward promoting the
  internal dialogue in Ukraine. As I said earlier, the rights of
  the eastern Ukrainians are not adequately recognized and
  protected, and there is some kind of autonomy given to them. That
  is the only way to find a solution short of a civil war. I’m
  afraid the Western countries, the US and the EU, are still trying
  to play geopolitical games and the aim is somehow to keep the
  whole of Ukraine outside of the Russian sphere of interest and
  bring it into the Western sphere of influence, which is a recipe
  for continuing tensions and conflict. They should have avoided
  it. After all, Europe prides itself on being a continent of
  peace, and there we see the revival of a Cold War atmosphere and
  Cold War tactics and geopolitical play, which is extremely
  painful to the rest of the world.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
