"Ohio judge suspends all executions, citing botched lethal injections

A US judge has suspended all scheduled executions in the state of Ohio for at least two and a half months so authorities can determine the legality of the state's new lethal injection process, which critics say is in violation of the US Constitution.

Lethal injection, which
  remains popular with Americans in the 32 states where it is
  employed, is under scrutiny after a number of executions went
  wrong. The most recent incident took place last month in
  Oklahoma, when an inmate spent 40 minutes gasping while fading in
  and out of consciousness before ultimately dying of a massive
  heart attack.


  The disturbing description of that prisoner’s death prompted
  international condemnation on the already controversial practice.



  In 2011 the European Union, citing its anti-torture regulation,
  voted to halt the shipment of all drugs used in the lethal
  injection process to US states where capital punishment is still
  legal. Prison officials in those states turned to local
  pharmacies but have refused to disclose which drugs are being
  used in order to prevent demonstrations.



  Like the Oklahoma execution in April, a controversial drug
  cocktail was also used to devastating effect in a January
  execution in Ohio. Dennis McGuire was put to death on January 16
  but, instead of going unconscious and peacefully slipping away,
  he loudly choked and clenched his body for 26 minutes after the
  drugs were administered.



  In response, the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction
  said it would continue to use the same drugs that were used to
  kill McGuire, albeit in larger doses in the future. The sedative
  midazolam, 10 milligrams of which was used in the McGuire
  execution, will now be given in 50 milligram doses.



  Hydromorphone, a painkiller, will be increased from 40 milligrams
  to 50 milligrams, and a third syringe of 60 milligrams of
  hydromorphone will be ready to be administered “if
  needed,” according to the Columbus Dispatch.


  US District Judge Gregory Frost ordered the moratorium this week
  in response to the Department of Correction’s announcement,
  saying that state prosecutors and anti-lethal injection advocates
  both need time to formulate their legal arguments on the issue.



  Jon Paul Rion, a lawyer representing the surviving McGuire family
  in a suit against Ohio, told the Cleveland Plain Dealer the moratorium was a
  step in the right direction, but more needs to be done to prevent
  cruel and unusual punishment.



  “I’m thankful that time is being given to fix a problem that
  clearly needs attention,” he said. “Our fundamental
  concern, speaking for the McGuire family, is that we are using
  therapeutic drugs for non-therapeutic purposes. Trying to create
  a protocol to use these drugs for executions seems to be a
  difficult task.”



  “We’re concerned because there is no scientific correlation
  between the new [higher] doses or a scientific study that
  demonstrates either protocol is more effective,” he added.



  The judge’s order delays two scheduled executions. Ronald
  Phillips, convicted in the 1993 rape and murder of a
  three-year-old girl, was scheduled to die by lethal injection on
  July 2. William Montgomery, whose conviction was overturned in
  2007 only for the US Supreme Court to decline hearing the matter,
  will also have his August 6 execution delayed.



  Frost’s moratorium is just the latest update in an ongoing
  national debate over the death penalty. The Supreme Court
  reinstated the death penalty in 1976 and, while the number of
  executions peaked in 1999, fewer and fewer states still go
  through with the procedure. Six states have stopped the practice
  in the past eight years alone.



  With an increasing number of states unable to obtain the drugs
  necessary to carry out executions, lawmakers who still preside
  over states where capital punishment is legal have been forced to
  become more creative.



  Some politicians have vocally considered bringing back firing
  squads or the gas chamber, while Tennessee reauthorized the use
  of the electric chair last week. The chair will only be used in
  the event that Tennessee is unable to obtain the necessary lethal
  injection drugs, although Richard Dieter of the Death Penalty
  Information Center said that it will be the only state where
  inmates have no choice but to be electrocuted.



  “There are states that allow inmates to choose, but it is a
  very different matter for a state to impose a method like
  electrocution,” Dieter told US News and World Report. “No other state
  has gone so far.”



  Ohio legal teams will have until August 15 to formulate their
  legal arguments over the state’s lethal injection policy."
