"The A-Z of European parliamentary elections

As the final day of voting in the EU elections kicks off, Europe gleefully awaits the announcement of the results on Sunday evening– or does it? Follow RT’s alphabetized breakdown to find out about the polls, the parliament, and problems on the continent.


  Voting began on Thursday in the UK and the Netherlands, with
  Latvia, Malta and Slovakia all casting their votes on Saturday.
  The final day of polls will close with Italians voting for their
  preferred candidate.



  Low voter turnout and increasing Euroskepticism sweeping the
  continent suggests that the 400 million who have the right to
  vote may not want to exercise it; Ireland’s Friday exit polls
  showed that turnout stood at a mere 30 percent.



  A – Austerity



  Austerity measures have descended upon Europe since the beginning
  of the eurozone crisis in early 2009. Governments have been
  implementing increasingly harsh fiscal policies to pick up the
  pieces. Unemployment has been a direct result of the mass public
  spending cuts with Spain being hardest hit, shortly followed by
  Greece. A report published in April demonstrated that spending
  cuts in Greece have directly led to the suicides of 500 people.



  B –Bailout



  The eurozone’s three big lenders, known as the Troika, yield a
  great amount of power, as they have lent over 396 billion euro to
  Greece, Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain. Greece was the
  first in 2010, and most recently, Cyprus in 2013. Ireland exited
  its bailout last December, and Portugal exited its 78 billion
  euro ($108 billion) international bailout program earlier this
  month. However, all other countries which initially received
  Troika ‘bailout’ funds are still being supported.



  C – Catalonia



  Catalonia has been seeking independence and self-governance since
  the final years of the 19th century. According to a March poll,
  up to 60 percent of Catalan people want independence from the
  rest of Spain. Last December, the Catalan regional parliament set
  November 9, 2014, as a referendum date to decide their fate.
  Historically Catalonia, which already enjoys significant autonomy
  from Madrid, has been one of Spain’s better-off regions and the
  local population has resented having to send their taxes to the
  capital to help support poorer areas of the country. However, the
  area of 7.5 million residents is currently 57.1 billion euro
  ($78.5 billion) in debt, which is the most of any of Spain’s 17
  autonomous regions.



  D – Disenchantment



  In the last European Parliament elections in 2009 there was a
  mere 43 percent voter turnout. According to European Parliament
  figures, only 34.7 percent of eligible UK voters exercised their
  right in 2009. The only countries to regularly achieve a high
  turnout of around 90 percent have been Luxembourg and Belgium –
  and that’s because voting is compulsory in both. Voter turnout
  has been steadily decreasing since the first parliamentary
  elections in 1979.



  E – European parliamentary elections



  The elections for European Parliament will take place from 22 to
  25 May 2014 and will elect 751 deputies. The last set of
  elections was held in 2009 on the backdrop of a nascent financial
  crisis in the Union. Since the onset of the economic upheaval, EU
  politicians have championed austerity measures and cuts to social
  welfare as a solution to the crisis.



  F – France



  European far right parties have been steadily gaining popularity,
  and nowhere is that tendency more evident than in France. Crisis,
  immigration, and unemployment have been nudging disillusioned
  Frenchmen towards the Front National – headed up by Marine Le
  Pen. At the end of March, Le Pen saw an unprecedented win for the
  far right when her party won mayor’s seat in 15 towns. Polls
  suggest that the FN may well be in line to win a large proportion
  of the votes in France.



  G – Greece



  It’s impossible to do a round-up of Europe-wide politics and
  factors influencing the impending elections, without mentioning
  Greece – which is frequently held responsible for the eurozone
  crisis.



  Greece has received a 130-billion-euro loan to help keep its
  ailing economy afloat, but in return, it has had to comply with
  strict austerity measures governing its budget.



  The measures have had a serious knock-on effect in the country,
  triggered mass protests with enraged Greeks alleging European
  banks are pocketing the bailout money. Greece has also seen a
  rise in suicides related to the economic hardship with reports of
  HIV injections being used as a way to qualify
  for state benefits.



  H - Homogenization of number plates



  European countries were up in arms in April over the possibility
  of introducing a common EU-wide design and causing sweeping fears
  that all cars would have to bear the 12 stars of the EU flag on
  their license plates. UK Conservative MEPs called the idea
  “idiotic.” Officials later stated that there had been no firm
  proposals, according to a BBC report published shortly
  afterwards. However, the uproar that followed was symptomatic of
  wider fears of EU top-down regulations being apparently imposed
  on unwilling member states. EU legislation presides over domestic
  law, so some countries (incl. UK) started calling for national
  parliaments to have a ‘red card’ of sorts to block MEPs.



  I – Ireland



  Ireland exited from the EU bailout scheme last December, hailing
  the event as a milestone. However, the country’s finance minister
  declared at the time that Ireland was far from being at the end
  of the road. Moody’s Investors Service has already upgraded
  Ireland’s government debt rating to investment grade based on the
  one-time Celtic Tiger’s growth potential and Dublin’s timely exit
  from its EU/IMF support program. The debt upgrade came amidst
  falling unemployment figures and lenders slashing the interest
  charged on the national debt to 3.5 percent – lower than the cost
  of loans under the bailout and less than was paid before the debt
  crisis, according to the Irish Independent.



  J – Jose Manuel Barroso



  Jose Manuel Barroso is the 11th and current President of the
  European Commission. The former Portuguese prime minister assumed
  the post in 2004 prior to the onset of the financial crisis and
  has since had the problematic task of directing the 28-nation
  bloc. Barroso admitted earlier this month in a speech that the EU
  had failed to engage with its citizens during the crisis.
  However, he urged them to strike a balance between full
  federalism and anti-Brussels populism at ballots.



  K – Kiev



  The tense situation in Ukraine has been the setting for the
  entire buildup to the European elections. Elections in Ukraine
  are currently taking place at the same time as the European
  elections. Violence and political instability has rocked the
  south and the eastern regions of the country meaning it could be
  impossible to open polling stations in these areas. The Council
  of the European Union stated on May 12 that it “stands by
  Kiev for free and fair presidential elections.” However,
  Russia has warned that the May 25 presidential vote in Ukraine
  may aggravate the crisis if military operations in the
  south-eastern regions are not halted and the OSCE road map drawn
  to settle the situation is not implemented. “The upcoming
  elections on May 25 can only worsen the differences in the
  country,” Russian deputy foreign minister, Grigory Karasin,
  said at a meeting with the British Ambassador to Russia Tim
  Barrow, on May 20.



  L – Lampedusa: Small but significant



  The small Italian island off the coast of Tunisia is hotbed of
  migrant activity which has only got worse since the beginning of
  the year. At least 34,800 people have made the crossing from
  Africa to Italy already this year – compared to 43,000 across the
  whole of 2013. Interior Minister Angelino Alfano demanded on May
  13 that the EU step up its efforts.
  
  “The European Union has two options: either it comes to the
  Mediterranean to put the EU flag on Mare Nostrum or we will let
  migrants with right of asylum leave for other countries,”
  Alfano tweeted. Hundreds have died in attempted crossings in the
  past two years.



  M – MEPs



  Seven hundred and fifty MEPs and a European Parliamentary
  President are being elected, fewer than the current figure of
  766. Elections take place by proportional representation which
  means seats are allocated based on the population of each Member
  State: The UK and Italy get 73 apiece, France 74, Finland 13,
  Greece 21 and smaller countries such as Luxembourg, Estonia and
  Malta get six each.



  However, MEPs still organize themselves into political and
  ideological coalition groups rather than comprising a party as
  such. The European People's Party (EPP) made up the largest block
  in the most recent incarnation of the European Parliament, with
  274 MEPs. The Non-Inscrits are the members who don’t belong to
  any particular political group and they are the smallest group,
  comprised of only 30 MEPs.



  While the flagrant abuse of lavish expenses and lax oversight
  that once gave the European Parliament a bad name has been
  addressed, parliamentarians still enjoy a comfortable lifestyle,
  particularly compared to their constituents.
  
  Unlike the system in place before 2009, when all MEPs received
  the same wage as those in the domestic parliament, the salary for
  all incoming MEPs will be 96,000 euro per year.



  The number is supplemented by generous expenses allowances that
  total more than 4,200 euro a month, as well as a daily allowance,
  paid-for first class travel, and large discounts on healthcare.



  Once all of these are factored in, an average MEP earns more than
  200,000euro a year. Together with their support staff (who can no
  longer be just family members given a sinecure) MEPs are
  estimated to cost their countries, which foot the bill, between
  30,000 and 40,000 euro a month.



  N – Nationalism



  Nationalism and, at times, neo-Nazi sentiments have been rising
  in Europe in the face of increasing Euroskepticism. Neo-Nazism is
  on the rise in Europe and if nations do not opt-out of the EU
  democratically, the entity has a violent end ahead of it, UKIP
  leader Nigel Farage predicted during a second public debate on
  the UK’s EU membership at the beginning of April.



  “There is a neo-Nazi party in Greece that look certain to win
  seats in the European parliament …We see in Madrid, we see in
  Athens very large protests, tens of thousands of people, a lot of
  violence,” Farage said.



  O - Overspending



  The EU’s annual budget exceeds 140 billion euro and many experts
  have voiced concerns that the sum is being mismanaged.



  However, more than 40 percent of that money goes towards
  subsidizing farmers through its Common Agricultural Policy.
  Farmers constitute about 5 percent of the population of Europe,
  and produce less than 2 percent of GDP, but receive nearly 60
  billion euro from the EU. While the policy has been accused of
  misallocating resources and rewarding uncompetitive businesses,
  the EU insists that it ensures food security and rural
  development, even as Europe struggles with austerity. The policy
  has been criticized for giving money to the most profitable farms
  and already-wealthy farmers.
  
  Funding is divided between direct aid to farmers at 39.4 billion
  euro, 11.5 billion euro for rural development, 385 million euro
  for export refunds and 94 million euro for food storage. France
  gets the biggest subsidies, receiving some 9.85 billion euro.



  A deal signed last year for EU budgets up to 2020 produced the
  first real-term reduction in EU spending, by 3 percent. But this
  has not made the purpose of EU expenditures, which are jointly
  administered by Brussels and the 28 member states, any less
  controversial. The new budget will see 20 percent of all funds
  allocated to combatting climate change – a highly politicized
  area that has sparked pushback from conservatives across Europe.



  P – Parliament



  There are 766 MEPs, who are responsible for representing some 500
  million people dispersed across 28 EU countries. The European
  Parliament met for the first time some 56 years ago after being
  created by Europe's founding Treaty of Rome. However, elections
  weren’t held until 1979. The European Parliament is the only
  directly elected institution of Europe – the other most important
  component bodies of the institution are the European Commission
  and the Council of the EU. Both rely heavily on appointments.
  Elections begin on May 22 and last through until May 25. Italy
  will be the last country to vote, closing ballots on Sunday
  evening.



  Q – Questions



  A host of issues will face the newly-elected European Parliament
  at a time when the future of the Union is doubtful. The financial
  crisis has given rise to questions from member nations over the
  centralized control of the EU.
  
  How to function better as a better as a multicurrency union? What
  is the best use of EU funds? The role of the EU in 21st century
  society – especially since the eurozone crisis is still very much
  in doubt, especially given the swing to the right? And does the
  EU have a future at all?



  R – Referendums for independence



  In January 2013, UK Prime Minister David Cameron promised that
  there would be a nationwide referendum on EU membership should
  the Conservative Party win the next general election in 2015.
  Other regional and national separatists have been seeking
  referenda – such as Catalonia and Scotland.



  S – Scotland



  Support for Scottish independence has been gaining ground - a
  poll published on May 14 showed that support for Scotland to vote
  to leave the United Kingdom in a referendum on September 18 had
  risen. While there was little major surface change – with support
  elevated by only one percentage point since previous polls, it
  showed that among those who were definitely going to vote, some
  35 percent would opt for independence, according to Reuters.
  Forty-four percent opposed the move.



  T – Turnout



  The voter turnout at the EU elections has been steadily declining
  over the last few years, with the previous vote in 2009 seeing
  only 45 percent of the EU population make their way to polls.
  Luxembourg and Belgium have consistently topped the 90 percent
  mark in previous years mainly because the vote is obligatory,
  while the rest of Europe struggled to meet the 50 percent mark.



  U – UKIP



  Britain’s UKIP party has blossomed from a single issue campaign
  group – attempting to keep the UK out of Europe - into an
  important minor party. On May 16, Scotland’s first minister said
  that in the UK the Lib Dems could be edged out by UKIP and YouGov
  polls conducted in April predicted UKIP would garner 23 percent,
  Conservatives 21percent, Liberal Democrats 14 percent, Labour 31
  percent and Greens 7 percent in the EU elections.



  V – Voteman



  Disenchantment of the voting public prompted Denmark to devise an
  animated muscle-bound maniac on a mission to make young Danes
  vote. Voteman caused global controversy after the
  video triggered a storm of complaints over scenes of pornography
  and violence.



  W – Wilders and PVV



  Dutch Politician Geert Wilders who leads the right wing Dutch
  Freedom Party (PVV) is a controversial figure in European
  politics. The anti-Islam, anti-immigration politician has drawn
  criticism in the past for calling for “repeat offenders to be
  forcibly removed from their neighborhood and send to a village
  for scum.”



  According to exit polls PVV has seen a decrease in its popularity
  in the EU elections, winning 12.2 percent of the vote as oppose
  to 17 percent in 2009. As a result the party will lose three of
  its five seats in the EU parliament.



  X - Generation X



  Generation X was born between the mid-1960s and mid 1970s and has
  the lowest voter participation rate on account of high
  skepticism. Members have been described as cautious and pragmatic
  and generally retaining less faith in governments.



  Y- Generation Y



  Generation Y –the millennial generation - is generally defined as
  the subsequent group, from the mid-to-late ’70s until the early
  ’90s. The group has changed the ways in which people communicate
  with its maturity now having its own impact on politics. Having
  followed a generation that generally regards politics as
  unimportant, its young, but confident and ambitious members have
  shown signs of wanting to reclaim this area of life.



  Z - Generation Z



  Generation Z is still developing its identity. However, the
  atmosphere of rapid change and widely-available and
  elaborately-developing technology means that priorities will
  undoubtedly have a significant impact on its attitude and
  outlook. Only part of it is currently even of voting age.



  However, the group faces significant obstacles, growing up in the
  knowledge that it will take time to regain lost earning power,
  studying and entering the job market as austerity measures,
  unemployment and cuts to welfare programs continue in Europe."
