"?Yatsenyuk demands $1bn worth of gas ‘stolen’ by Russia in Crimea

Russia owes Ukraine about 2.2 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas worth around $1 billion, which was “stolen together with Crimea,” self-appointed Ukrainian PM Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Tuesday.

We have no idea
  what he means, Reuters quotes Gazprom spokesman Sergei
  Kupriyanov as saying.


  Earlier on Tuesday Yatsenyuk said he was waiting for a reply from
  Russia on his claim 2.2 bcm of natural gas was stolen
  by Russia when it took over the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and
  consequently local gas supplier Chornomornafrogaz (Black Sea
  Gas). At Gazprom prices the value of the gas is about $1 billion,
  Yatsenyuk calculated.



  If Ukraine and Russia do not agree on a gas settlement by
  Thursday, May 29, “we’ll meet with Russia’s Gazprom in a
  Stockholm court,” the self-appointed head of Ukraine’s
  cabinet said.



  May 29 is a deadline for a pre-arbitration settlement of the
  Russia-Ukraine gas dispute. Russia “has so far not done
  anything to fix the row,” Yatsenyuk insisted.



  “We are ready to pay for the gas bought. However, in order to
  pay it’s necessary to sign the documents. We don’t have
  time,” he said.



  The comments follow Monday's meeting between the energy leaders
  of Russia, Ukraine, and the EU, who tried to find a solution to
  the dispute.



  Each party at the energy talks in Berlin have separate views on
  the results of the meeting.



  While Russia’s Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak said the parties
  agreed on the first $2.5 billion payment to
  cover Ukraine's gas debt, the Ukrainian Ministry of Energy Yury
  Prodan insisted that no specific agreements were reached.



  He also did not answer whether Ukraine will pay Russia a part of
  the gas debt this week.



  It simply shows the risks that Ukraine won’t pay the gas
  debt till Friday is remaining, Gazprom head Aleksey Miller
  said in an interview to Russia-24 channel. Hope springs
  eternal, but following the way the press conference of the
  Ukrainian Ministry of Energy was held, I suppose everyone has
  felt that the risks are remaining and the risks are high”.



  Ukraine says it is ready to pay the gas debt to Russia that has
  grown to more than $3.5 billion after it confirms the price of
  further deliveries at $268.5 per thousand cubic meters, Oleksandr
  Shlapak, the Ukrainian Minister of Finance said.



  We are ready to pay after they confirm to us the price of
  gas in the future. But the proposals which are expressed now:
  first you pay and then we will start negotiating, don’t suit
  us, Shlapak said on Tuesday,



  Miller said that Russia is ready to reduce the gas price to
  Ukraine by lifting an export duty. However, it is subject to
  further negotiations after Ukraine pays at least a part of its
  multibillion-dollar debt."
