"Kiev negotiators agree to pay $2.5bn to Gazprom to cover part of gas debt

Moscow and Kiev have tentatively agreed on the total amount of the first gas debt tranche that Ukraine should pay, which is $2.5 billion, said Russian Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak. The EU stressed the need for Kiev to pay its bills.


  Russia and Ukraine have agreed that Kiev will partly pay its gas
  bills to cover supplies from November to May, inclusively,
  Russian Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak said after holding talks
  in Berlin with Gazprom Deputy CEO Aleksandr Medvedev and EU
  Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger.



  The total amount of payments can reach 2.5 billion US
  dollars. We are ready to continue discussing prices for gas which
  we deliver to Ukraine. We hope that the Ukrainian side will
  discuss our proposals with its leadership, Novak
  elaborated.



  Russia is ready to continue talks about the price of gas supplied
  to Ukraine if Kiev pays the first part of the debt before Friday,
  said Russian Energy Minister as quoted by RIA Novosti.



  At the same time, Oettinger said that Russia and Ukraine have
  until Wednesday evening to arrange the partial payment of Kiev’s
  gas debt which now stands at over $3.5 billion, and the first
  payment can be made on Thursday.



  Ukraine is ready to transfer two billion dollars to Gazprom
  on Thursday and another 500 million on June 7. The Ukrainian
  state must agree to transfer the money,” the EU official
  said after the talks. The first tranche should cover gas supplies
  received from 1 November 2013 until the end of March 2014. The
  transfer in June is set to partially pay for May imports.



  Novak reiterated that the future talks will focus on a possible
  export discount, but not on price change.



  The price of gas is determined by the contract between
  Russia’s Gazprom and Ukraine’s Naftogaz. The price is determined
  by a formula which has been operating since 2009. [The formula]
  is not expected to change [in the forthcoming negotiations]. We
  can only talk about discounts in the context of the reduction of
  export duties,” he said.



  However, Ukraine’s Energy Minister Yury Prodan said on Monday
  that Ukraine is “willing to pay the debt but the price must
  be market-oriented and fair,” RIA Novosti reported.



  The price should be $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters, Prodan said.
  He confirmed the intention to sue Russia for gas pressure in the
  Stockholm arbitration court on June 28 so the court would
  determine the mandatory amount.



  EU Energy Commissioner: 'Ukraine must pay gas debts'



  The EU has supported Moscow’s decision and said that Ukraine
  needs to begin repaying its gas debt to Russia, suggesting Kiev
  use some of the $3.2 billion from its first IMF aid tranche and
  other EU assistance programs.



  “The bills are on the table, and they must be paid,”
  Oettinger said on German radio station SWR on Monday before the
  Berlin talks.



  Oettinger also proposed a price between $200-$400 per 1,000 cubic
  meters, which the commissioner considers “common for the
  European market.”



  Kiev has said it is ready to pay Russia as long as Gazprom lowers
  its current rate of $485 per 1,000 cubic meters. The price
  climbed when Gazprom canceled two gas discounts from the $268.50
  per 1,000 cubic meters rate it paid in the first three months of
  2014.



  After June 1, Ukraine will have to prepay for any gas deliveries,
  as Gazprom said it won't let any more debt accumulate.



  “There are some barriers to indulgence, some things we cannot
  afford,” Russian President Vladimir Putin said, speaking at
  the 18th annual St. Petersburg Economic Forum on Saturday.



  Europe sources about one third of its total gas supply from
  Russia, 50 percent of which flows through Ukraine. Any possible
  disruption therefore not only affects the pipeline host country,
  but all of Europe.



  “We all know who is to blame - the transit country, Ukraine has
  abused its position. Ukraine insists on benefits it is not
  entitled to, Putin said at the forum on Saturday.



  Europe sources about one third of its total energy supply from
  Russia, 50 percent of which flows through Ukraine. Any possible
  disruption therefore not only affects the pipeline host country, but all of
  Europe.


“We all know who is to blame - the transit country, Ukraine
  has abused its position. Ukraine insists on benefits it is not
  entitled to, Putin said at the forum on Saturday.



  Oettinger has been a major player in brokering a deal between the
  two embittered nations, but so far no concrete negotiation has
  been reached."
