"Snowden ‘considers’ returning to US – report

American whistleblower Edward Snowden is “considering” returning home to the USA under certain conditions, his lawyer told German news magazine Der Spiegel.

There are negotiations, Snowden's German lawyer
  Wolfgang Kaleck told Der Spiegel. Those who know the
  case are aware that an amicable agreement with the US authorities
  will be most reasonable.”
  All efforts are now focused on finding a solution acceptable for
  Edward Snowden, at least in the medium term, according to Kaleck,
  who is also secretary-general for the European Center for
  Constitutional and Human Rights.
  
  Meanwhile, former NSA contractor isn’t involved in these
  negotiations, according to Kaleck, who added that his client
  never acted selfishly and caused no damage.
  
  That’s why, one could hope that a democratic US government paves
  the way back to him, he added.
  
  At Kaleck’s request, the NSA investigation committee in the
  German Bundestag, a constitutional and legislative body, is
  currently clarifying with the Cabinet of Germany
  (Bundesregierung) if the whistleblower can enter and testify
  there.
  
  Reports that the famous whistleblower wants to come back to the
  US and was seeking high-ranked lawyer to negotiate his return
  first emerged in April. The New York Times wrote that during the
  summer of 2013, Snowden was seeking the assistance of DC-based
  attorney Plato Cacheris to negotiate a plea deal with federal
  prosecutors that would allow Snowden to return to the US as well
  as spare him significant prison time.
  
  Snowden, while employed by the NSA, took up to 1.7 million
  classified files on US vast surveillance apparatus and
  intelligence gathering methods.
  
  The ex-NSA contractor is currently under temporary asylum in
  Russia. He is wanted by the US on charges of espionage and theft
  of government property after leaking a vast trove of classified
  material to journalists that revealed more understanding of the
  National Security Agency’s global spying operations.
  
  Earlier Snowden said that he wishes to return to the US, but is
  concerned he would be unfairly convicted of spying and subjected
  to the same treatment as other leakers who dared to expose
  government secrets during the Obama administration’s relentless
  pursuit of whistleblowers under the Espionage Act.
  
  On May 20, a plea to give political asylum to Snowden if Scotland
  votes for independence was sent to the Scottish Parliament. Mick
  Napier, a retired lecturer at Edinburgh Napier University put
  forward a petition calling for Snowden, now rector of Glasgow
  University, to be given shelter in Scotland."
