"‘US needs to be aware of China, Russia trading in their own currencies’

There are many emerging markets, and particularly China and Russia, which do not really want to hold many US dollars, consequently they will move away from it in trade deals, the CEO of The Motley Fool Singapore David Kuo told RT.


  The biggest energy deal between China and Russia could be the
  catalyst that dethrones the greenback as the world's reserve
  currency. Some economists, commenting on Russia and China's 400
  billion dollar natural gas accord, say that the dollar is
  becoming rather weak since many countries are likely to prefer
  trading in their national currencies.


RT:How could Russia and China trading in
  their own currencies threaten the dollar?

David Kuo: I think America needs to be very
  aware of what is going on, because China will be paying for gas
  probably in rubles, so consequently, what will happen between
  these two countries will be that they would be trading in their
  own respective currencies. So Russia will be holding a lot of
  Chinese yuan and China maybe will be holding lots of Russian
  rubles. Consequently, they will not be holding the US dollar as a
  result. Previously what they had to say was “Let’s go and buy
  some US dollars and use it for paying for gas from Russia”,
  and that may not happen in this particular case because both
  countries want to move away from holding too much in a way of US
  dollars.


RT:In general, 60 per cent of global
  reserves are held in dollars, which is worth trillions... Surely
  America's got nothing to be afraid of, really?

DK: I think if you add the euro as well it will
  be 90 per cent of reserves being either in dollars and the euro.
  But those countries should not be so complacent because many of
  the other emerging markets, and particularly China and Russia, do
  not really want to hold in a way much of US dollars. And one of
  the big issues is if you are holding US dollars, what are you
  going to do with it? You have to go out and buy US treasuries and
  that has really been the attraction of the US dollar because the
  US treasury market is so big, you can absorb as much as people
  want in terms of buying this US debt. But America needs to be
  very aware because this may not carry on forever. There was a
  time when sterling was a reserve currency in the world. Sterling
  was a currency reserve simply because Great Britain was one of
  the biggest trading partners around the world. And then they got
  usurped, they got overtaken by America. So never say never as far
  as reserve currencies are concerned. The euro is still playing
  second fiddle at the moment but as China grows and China starts
  to conduct its play around the world, it is quite feasible one
  day China can become one of the reserve currencies that people
  would want to hold.


RT:For the dollar to be dethroned there
  must be an alternative. Does that truly exist for the
  moment?

DK: An alternative does truly exist but in order
  for the yuan, renminbi, to be a reserve currency a number of
  things have to happen. They must have an open bond market, it is
  all over me holding a Chinese renminbi, yuan, but I need to do
  something with it and I need to be able to invest it somehow, and
  I cannot do this by simply sitting and doing nothing. So China
  must open up its bond market and it must relinquish some of its
  capital controls. In other words, it cannot control the currency
  through the government itself; it must allow the currency to be
  freely traded. The third issue is trust. We saw the 2008
  financial crisis. When there was a crisis, what did the people
  do? Everybody ran to the US dollar, everybody sunk the money into
  the US dollar because they were safe. Some people have sunk them
  into the Swiss franc but of course when you look at Switzerland,
  the economy is not so big, it was not able to absorb all the
  money coming in. So China has got a potential, but what it really
  needs to do is to open up its bond market, get the trust of the
  investors around the world and to relinquish capital control in
  some way.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
