"Moscow in no rush to respond to Donetsk People's Republic plea for accession

Russia is taking its time before reacting to Donetsk People's Republic’s plea to consider its accession into Russia while calling for dialogue between Kiev and the eastern regions.


  The Russian president’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov has told
  Kommersant newspaper Russia does not yet have a response to the
  plea.



  Earlier on Monday the Kremlin’s press service issued a statement,
  saying: “Moscow respects the will of the people in Donetsk
  and Lugansk and hopes that the practical realization of the
  outcome of the referendums will be carried out in a civilized
  manner.”

It stressed the necessity of a “dialogue between
  representatives of Kiev, Donetsk and Lugansk.”


  On Monday, Donetsk People's Republic proclaimed itself a sovereign state and asked
  Moscow to consider its accession into Russia, the Republic’s
  council said.



  Earlier in the day, the results of referendums were announced in
  Donetsk and Lugansk Regions, showing the majority of voters
  support self-rule, amid an intensified military operation by Kiev
  which resulted in several deaths.



  Experts on the issue have weighed in with their view on Russia’s
  response.



  International legal expert Alexander Mercouris told RT that
  Moscow’s reaction was consistent with its previous policy on
  Ukraine.


“Moscow is following what has been its consistent policy
  right from the start, right from the moment when the coup took
  place in Kiev in February, which has been pressing for
  negotiations between Kiev and the actual true democratic
  representatives of the eastern regions in order to achieve
  constitutional change,” Mercouris told RT. “I do not
  think Moscow’s position has changed. But I think Moscow’s
  position may change in the future.”


  International relations expert and senior lecturer at Moscow
  State University Mark Sleboda also told to RT that he does not
  view Moscow’s reaction as contradicting its previous stance.


“Moscow’s reaction to the referendum – they of course
  recommended that it be postponed, and they had a somewhat tepid
  reaction to it. But at the same time they did not completely
  disown it either,” Sleboda said.


“The first statement out of Moscow this morning that it
  looked forward to a dialogue between Donetsk, Lugansk and Kiev to
  resolve the situation and implement the people’s will was a very
  strong indication that Russia is still really trying for dialogue
  with Kiev,” Sleboda added.



  Professor of History and Politics in Berlin Ronald Suni noted
  that Russia’s slow response will indeed provide room for
  international dialogue, which may help the situation.


“Vladimir Putin and his advisors decided a few days ago that
  we’ve got to pull back, that we’ve got to slow things down. That
  all these people acting in their own interest, out of their own
  emotions and passions could lead to some very dangerous
  situations - civil war or international war,” Suni told RT.


“So, why not postpone the referendum, which of course the
  locals did not want to do, recognize the May 25 elections, which
  part of Ukraine probably won’t do, and pull troops back from the
  frontier, which Putin did. Even so, these actions have not led to
  a response, on both sides it would allow for some kind of
  international negotiation,” he added.



  Mercouris also explained the referendum results are valid
  statement of opinion. “Yes, they were organized in great
  haste, in civil war, revolutionary conditions, but even people
  who are present, who are hostile to these referendums, from the
  Western media now accept that these are in fact representative of
  the powerful mass movement,” he said.



  Sleboda stated that when examining Donetsk and Lugansk
  referendums, one must pay attention to three things. “One,
  the extremely large turnout, which is nearly impossible to deny.
  The overwhelming landslide victory – since the vote was
  essentially public with the glass ballot boxes and the Western
  journalists who served in place of international monitors, we
  could say, who clearly informally polled on the ground the
  strength of support for the independence vote.”

“And three, we have to remember that this did indeed happen
  under the barrel of a gun – but not the barrel of the gun of the
  self-defense forces, but under the barrel of the gun of this Kiev
  regime who was actually killing voters as they tried to vote
  against it on the referendum day,” he argued."
