"Russian sanctions, NSA spying top the agenda at Merkel’s White House visit

Germany’s Chancellor Merkel is in the White House for the first time since it was revealed the NSA monitored her personal communications. During bilateral talks with Barack Obama, Merkel is expected to broach sanctions on Russia and US spying.


  Relations between Washington and Berlin are showing signs of
  tensions, as German companies call for a halt to sanctions on
  Russia. Furthermore, Germany is still reeling from the NSA spy
  revelations that affected millions of German citizens, as well as
  high-ranking businessmen and politicians.



  Merkel reiterated earlier this week that Germany would support
  any further financial sanctions against Russia. However, growing
  calls from the German business sector may force her to change her
  policy in Friday’s meeting.


“The Germans are very clear they are not going to pursue
  factions that hurt German industry. That would be the straw that
  broke the camel’s back,” said Michael Hudson professor of
  Economics at the University of Missouri to RT.



  Indeed, some major corporate figures have already spoken out
  against a potential escalation of the sanctions, maintaining they
  will do more harm than good to the German economy.


“If there's a single message we have as business leaders,
  then it's this: sit down at the negotiating table and resolve
  these matters peacefully,” Eckhard Cordes told a recent
  conference in Berlin. Cordes is a former Daimler AG executive who
  now heads the Ostauschuss, German industry's branch for Eastern
  Europe, reported the Wall Street Journal.



  So far the US, EU, Canada and Japan have imposed sanction on
  Russia for its alleged role in the unrest in eastern Ukraine.
  Moscow has denied claims it is involved in the unrest and has
  pointed the finger at Washington for orchestrating the situation
  in Ukraine as part of its geopolitical strategy in the region.



  NSA spying



  The espionage antics of the US National Security Agency remain a
  bone of contention between Berlin and Washington. It emerged
  earlier in April that Merkel had been denied access to her NSA
  file, following reports the agency had monitored her personal
  communications. The revelations had a profound effect on German
  society, prompting calls for Washington to account for its
  actions.


“First the US denied spying on Merkel’s cell phone, then
  admitted it, now it just continues, because Obama says ‘we
  reserve the right to collect information.’ I just see Angela
  Merkel going to the US to pick up new instructions,” Ken
  Jebson, Redaktion radio host told RT’s Peter Oliver.



  While WikiLeaks spokesperson Kristinn Hrafsson, said the German
  government’s lack of resolve over the NSA spy scandal is
  indicative of European cowardice in the face of US dominance.


“I think the proof of the cowardice of governments and
  politicians and their unwillingness to tackle this in a
  meaningful way, despite what they say publicly, was when European
  countries closed their airspace and forced the presidential plane
  of Evo Morales to land in Austria, on a hunch that Edward Snowden
  was on board,” he told RT.



  Earlier this year Washington pledged that it would no longer spy
  on world leaders, but stated it would still gather information on
  the intentions of foreign powers through its espionage programs."
