"Republican senators introduce bill containing harsher sanctions against Russia

Republican members of the United States Senate took further steps on Wednesday towards increasing sanctions against Russia amidst an escalating international crisis surrounding neighboring Ukraine.


  Just two days after US President Barack Obama introduced the
  White House’s latest attempt to reprimand Moscow for its role in
  the Ukrainian ordeal, 19 senators introduced legislation on
  Wednesday described by Reuters as being broader and tougher than
  anything put in place yet by the administration.



  According to Reuters, the sanctions would apply to major
  Russian banks and energy companies, and come with $100 in
  military aid for Kiev. Wall Street Journal reporter Kristine
  Peterson added Wednesday morning that the military
  aspect of the proposal, if approved, would require the White
  House to substantially increase US and NATO support for the armed
  forces of allied Poland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, as well
  as accelerate implementation of missile defense in Europe.



  On Monday this week, the White House imposed additional sanctions
  on Russia. Those sanctions targeted seven Russian government
  officials and 17 companies closely tied with Russia’s Pres.
  Vladimir Putin.


“Since April 17, Russia has done nothing to meet its Geneva
  commitments and in fact has further escalated the crisis,”
  White House press secretary Jay Carney 
  said on Monday this week. “Russia’s involvement in the
  recent violence in eastern Ukraine is indisputable.”

“The goal is not to go after Mr. Putin personally; the goal
  is to change his calculus, to encourage him to walk the walk, not
  just talk the talk,” Obama said.


“I think what is happening now shows us who really was
  mastering the process from the beginning,” Pres. Putin
  said
  in response this week. “But in the beginning, the United
  States preferred to remain in the shadow.”


  The Kremlin fired back at first, and said Russia would not be
  hurt by the sanctions. Now just days later, conservative members
  of Congress are saying it’s time for Uncle Sam to up the ante.


“What we’ve seen from the administration is a lot of
  rhetoric,” Sen.Bob Corker(R-Tennessee) said Wednesday
  morning, according to the Journal.


Until Putin feels the real pain of sanctions targeting
  entities like Gazprom, which the Kremlin uses to coerce Ukraine
  and
  other neighbors, as well as some significant financial
  institutions, I don't think diplomacy will change Russian
  behavior and de-escalate this crisis, he said in a
  statement.



  Sen. Dan Coats (R-Indiana) added in his own remarks that “The
  lack of a forceful, effective response by the administration and
  Western leaders has given Putin little reason to expect that
  further aggression will be punished.

“We are introducing tough diplomatic, economic and financial
  sanctions, and I am hopeful that President Obama will support our
  effort,” Coats said.



  Washington has blamed Moscow for encouraging a recent uprising in
  eastern Ukraine and the nearby peninsula of Crimea that has
  displaced several local governments and imposed pro-Russian
  officials in their place. The recent Geneva treaty was signed
  with the goal of relaxing tensions in the region ahead of
  upcoming elections in Ukraine being held to replace the country’s
  recently ousted president Viktor Yanukovych, both leaders in both
  the US and Russia have accused one another of failing to abide by
  those terms."
