"Europe doesn’t want Russian sanctions – St. Pete forum delegates to RT

While this year’s Intl Economic Forum in St Petersburg saw fewer foreign guests due to sanctions tension, those who chose to leave politics aside told RT imposing economic restrictions on Moscow would mean “cutting the trees” they are “sitting on”.


  Here’s what the top managers told RT at the Economic Forum in St.
  Petersburg.



  Reiner Hartman, Chairman at the Association of European
  Businesses


“We as investors have a success story in this country for 22
  years. We’ve started from scratch and we have now such a
  fantastic story... We have investors from Europe, from the United
  States, from South America, from Africa, from Asia. They are all
  here. And why are we being taken hostage by irresponsible, I must
  say, political decision making people?”

“I’ve heard about 20 or 57 Chinese high-tech companies ready
  just to move in and replace Alstom, Siemens, BASF, and Bayer,
  just to name the few. It’s amazing!”


  Jean-Pierre Thomas, President of Thomas Vendome Investment


“CEOs and managers of western businesses are very aware that
  we have to cooperate with Russia because we are very
  complimentary. In Russia you have a lot of things to do to
  modernize your economy and need our technology and in Europe we
  need export and growth.”

“We [the West] have everything to lose in terms of economic
  growth and business. That’s why the US pushed for the economic
  sanctions. We are cutting the trees we are sitting on. It’s
  completely idiotic and inefficient - the solution is
  diplomacy.”

“I don’t think the EU will agree on economic sanctions. The
  English will not touch finance, the French won’t touch
  defense.”


  Joe Watt, Managing Partner at Ernst and Young


“Russia has been through various cycles over the last 25
  years, this is another cycle. I think there are long-term
  opportunities. The idea is that if companies leave now, it will
  be very hard for them to re-establish themselves in the
  future.”

“What we do see is some great entrance and great buying
  opportunities, we’ve even heard of some companies here now
  actively looking at opportunities to enter the market now. We do
  see companies taking advantage of the situation, and those
  companies will be successful in the long-term.


  Shiv V. Khemka, CEO at Sun Group


“We very much believe in the future of Russia. You have
  tremendous human capital and your human capital is a huge asset,
  you have huge resources and you are on the border of Asia. Hence,
  what’s happening now is very logical.”


  David Owen, Managing Partner at Deloitte CIS


“The atmosphere, the mood at this forum, it’s the fourth that
  I’ve attended, is quite resilient. And I think … business people
  are looking onto the politicians on all sides to create a
  sustainable political solution that enables us as business
  leaders to focus on how we are going to take advantage of that,
  to build our business interests and to ensure that the health and
  stability of the regional economies. I think, it’s a very healthy
  can-do attitude being demonstrated by all the people that are
  here.”


  David Gray, Managing Partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, Russia


“Europeans see Russia as a partner, there are many businesses
  that have been in Russia for many years and continue to believe
  that Russia is a very attractive market for them. And they still
  have plans about expanding their activities in Russia... People
  see a lot of opportunities for further developments in trade. I
  don’t think that gets completely derailed. I think we are going
  to have the polls where people figure out what political events
  mean. But I still think Europe is going to be extremely important
  market for Russia and Russia is going to be an extremely
  important market for Europe."
