"US child tobacco farms: 60hrs a week in heat, nicotine exposure

Children as young as seven toil away in sweltering heat, harvesting pesticide-laden tobacco and facing high-volume nicotine exposure in the US south to satisfy the demand of global cigarette manufacturers, a report by the Human Rights Watch reveals.


  The 138-page report, ‘Tobacco’s Hidden Children:
  Hazardous Child Labor in US Tobacco Farming’, gives a startling
  look of the often perilous conditions in which minors toil away
  in the United States’ tobacco heartland.



  The report culls its information from interviews with more than
  140 children working the fields in North Carolina, Kentucky,
  Tennessee and Virginia – where 90 percent of the country's
  tobacco is grown.



  Many of the child workers report frequently getting sick with
  vomiting, nausea, headaches and dizziness; all of which are
  symptoms of ‘Green tobacco sickness’ – acute nicotine poisoning.
  Working 50-60 hours a week, often without overtime pay and in
  intense heat, they are also exposed to pesticides known
  neurotoxins.


“As the school year ends, children are heading into the
  tobacco fields, where they can’t avoid being exposed to dangerous
  nicotine, without smoking a single cigarette,” said Margaret
  Wurth, children’s rights researcher and co-author of the report.
  “It’s no surprise the children exposed to poisons in the
  tobacco fields are getting sick.”


  HRW notes that while the long-term effects of nicotine absorption
  through the skin have not been studied, the side-effects of
  consuming tobacco products containing nicotine are well
  documented.



  According to the US Surgeon General’s most recent report,
  “The evidence is suggestive that nicotine exposure during
  adolescence, a critical window for brain development, may have
  lasting adverse consequences for brain development.”



  Others are forced to use dangerous tools and machinery, lift
  heavy loads, and climb dangerous heights to pass tobacco for
  drying. A lack of health education and safety training,
  inadequate water, sanitation and shade, and a lack of personal
  protective equipment are listed as other risk factors.



  Cost of education



  Many of the children who have gone to work in the fields are in
  fact supplementing the income of their impoverished parents.



  Gabriella G., a 42-year-old mother of six, told HRW why five of
  her children are currently working in the tobacco fields.


“What I earn is not sufficient for my family. My children
  have to work to buy school supplies, clothes, the things you have
  to pay for at school.”


  Other children said similar circumstances pushed them into the
  fields. One 13-year-old, Raul D., told HRW, “I work so that I
  have money to buy clothes for school and school supplies, you
  know, like crayons and stuff. I’ve already bought my backpack for
  next year.”


  Adriana, a 14-year-old from Kentucky who works as a hired hand on
  tobacco farms along with her parents and four brothers, sang a
  similar tune.


“I use the money for school supplies and to go on field
  trips,” she said.



  One 11-year-old named Jerado working the fields in Kentucky even
  said he was saving up to go to college.



  Perfectly legal



  What’s perhaps more shocking is that all of it is legal. While in
  most industries the absolute minimum working age is 14-15 years
  old, different rules apply to the agricultural industry. While
  children as young as 12 can be hired to work unlimited hours at a
  large tobacco farm, those as young as seven can be utilized on
  family farms.


The US has failed America's families by not meaningfully
  protecting child farmworkers from dangers to their health and
  safety, including on tobacco farms, said Wurth.
  Farming is hard work anyway, but children working on tobacco
  farms get so sick that they throw up, get covered by pesticides
  and have no real protective gear.


  HRW notes with some irony that the largest tobacco companies in
  the world purchase tobacco grown in the US to make popular
  cigarette brands like Marlboro, Newport, Camel, Pall Mall and
  others. And while these companies cannot legally sell cigarettes
  to children, they are able to benefit from child labor.



  They also recommend several measures, including amending the
  Worker Protection Standard to impose a minimum age of 18 for all
  pesticide handlers, and the enactment of legislation that would
  prohibit children under age 18 from engaging in hazardous work on
  tobacco farms, “including any work in which children come
  into contact with tobacco plants of any size or with dried
  tobacco leaves.”


  Passing the buck



  In response to the report, Phillip Morris International (PMI)
  said it would broaden its internal monitoring effort to visit all
  contracted farms in the US. PMI further stated that “it did
  not agree with Human Rights Watch’s recommendation to extend
  restrictions on children working to all stages of the tobacco
  crop.”


  Altria Group, the parent company of three US tobacco companies,
  including Philip Morris USA, said the HWR recommendations are
  “counter to current farming practices in the US” and “at odds
  with certain communities where family farming is a way of
  life.”


  Other major cigarette manufacturers, including British American
  Tobacco and Reynolds American, stressed that the children were
  not in their direct employ, effectively diffusing responsibility
  down the supply chain of outsourced labor."
