"Who's really 'presenting lies as facts'? How State Dept. exposes itself to propaganda

Mr. Richard Stengel, the US Under Secretary of State who wrote such an impassioned “takedown” of RT in the US State Department blog, did get one thing right.


  Propaganda IS the deliberate dissemination of information that
  you know to be false or misguided.



  And boy, does Mr. Stengel make a valiant attempt at propagandizing,
  because anyone would be hard-pressed to cram more falsehoods into
  a hundred words:



  “From assertions that peaceful protesters hired snipers to
  repeated allegations that Kiev is beset by violence, fascism and
  anti-Semitism, these are lies falsely presented as news. (...)
  Consider the way RT manipulated a leaked telephone
  call involving former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia
  Tymoshenko. Through selective editing, the network
  made it appear that Tymoshenko advocated violence
  against Russia. Or the constant reference
  to any Ukrainian opposed to a Russian takeover of the country as
  a terrorist. Or the unquestioning
  repetition of the ludicrous assertion last week that the United
  States has invested $5 billion in regime change in
  Ukraine.These are not facts, and they
  are not opinions. They are false claims, and when
  propaganda poses as news it creates real dangers and gives a
  green light to violence.”



  How many FACTS does Mr. Stengel attempt to deny? Let us count:



  - Yulia Tymoshenko herself has confirmed
  the authenticity of the conversation that included the following
  statements: “This is really beyond all boundaries. It's about
  time we grab our guns and kill those damned Russians together
  with their leader.” And “I would have found a way to kill those
  a***es. I hope I will be able to get all my connections involved.
  And I will use all of my means to make the entire world rise up,
  so that there wouldn't be even a scorched field left in Russia.”
  While there was indeed some controversy about a small portion of
  the recording being altered, Ms. Tymoshenko herself pointed to
  the source of the tape, not RT, as the guilty party, and the
  statements quoted above were not in question. Bottom line: if it
  appears that Ms. Tymoshenko is advocating violence against Russia
  and Russians – it’s because she blatantly is.



  - Forgetting for a second the absolutely ludicrous supposition,
  even in theory, of a Russian “takeover” of Ukraine, RT refers
  those supportive of the current authorities in Kiev as “anti-autonomy,”
  “pro-unity protesters” and “pro-Kiev
  activists.” But you know who is keen on throwing around the
  “terrorist” moniker? Why, that would be the newly-minted,
  US-supported Ukrainian government, applying the term to its own
  people (source: BBC News), as it sends tanks against the
  anti-government protesters – something that even President
  Yanukovich, for all his faults, refused to do.



  - Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland was the one to
  publicize the $5
  billion “investment” in Ukraine’s “European future,” framing it
  in terms of the United States’ support of Ukraine achieving
  preconditions for “its European aspirations.” Interestingly
  enough, that “European future” and those “European aspirations”
  by definition blatantly ignored and/or rejected the aspirations
  of the 37 percent of Ukrainians who desired closer relationship
  with Russia via a trade union, as opposed to the 39 percent in
  favor of 
  joining the EU (source: Kiev International Institute of
  Sociology). How much of that $5 billion went to support the
  institutions that aided their interests
  and how much support did Ms. Nuland et al. lend to the
  democratically-elected president who
  represented them? Right. Not that anyone is particularly
  surprised. Wouldn't be the 
  first time that the US benignly “invested”
  in “democracy” (sources: Washington Post).



  Now, how does throwing Molotov
  cocktails (source: Sky News), savagely beating
  officers, and refusing
  medical aid to the injured while taking over government
  buildings fit into your definition of “peaceful protesters”?
  There was indeed brutality on both sides of the barricades (which
  RT thoroughly documented and
  aired), but you have admit – police officers don’t die by the
  hand of peaceful demonstrators.



  How is RT behind the “protesters hired snipers” assertions if
  those concerns were brought to light by the famous leaked (and
  confirmed 
  authentic – source: CNN) Ashton-Paet
  call, by quoting a Maidan medic whose credibility they went
  to pains to establish? The statement that “there is now stronger
  and stronger understanding that behind the snipers, it was not
  Yanukovich, but it was somebody from the new coalition” came not
  from RT but the Estonian minister.



  And why is the far-right, neo-Nazi threat
  in Ukraine being so flippantly dismissed despite being 
  documented by dozens of Western mainstream media 
  outlets (sources: BBC Newsnight, The Nation, Channel 4 UK)?



  The reason you’re seeing citations of sources right here, in the
  text, is so that it cannot be labeled as another “propaganda”
  piece full of RT’s own “false” reporting. Or does Mr. Stengel
  consider all media organizations that report inconvenient facts
  that challenge his reality to be propaganda outlets? It is very
  disappointing that a person of his position knows so very little
  of the reality of the situation in Ukraine, but it certainly
  explains a lot about the state of US foreign policy.



  Facts are facts, Mr. Stengel. It’s too bad you can’t get your own
  straight."
