"Moscow to suspend American GPS sites on Russian territory from June

Russia is going to suspend the operation of all American GPS sites on its territory, starting from June 1, said Russia’s deputy PM, Dmitry Rogozin, who is in charge of space and defense industries.

Starting June 1, we will halt the work of those stations on
  Russian territory,” Rogozin said.



  Rogozin pointed out that American GPS ground stations are located
  in Russia under an agreement that dates back to 1993 and 2001.


“Under this agreement there are 11 GPS stations on the
  territories of 10 [Russian federal] subjects,” he said.



  He stressed that Moscow and Washington have until May 31 to agree
  on the issue of setting Russian GLONASS stations on US territory.


“We’re starting negotiations which will last for three
  months. We hope that by the end of summer, these talks will bring
  a solution that will allow our cooperation to be restored on the
  basis of parity and proportionality,” Rogozin said.



  But if the negotiations turn out to be fruitless, operation of
  the 11 American GPS stations in Russia will “be permanently
  terminated” from September 1, he warned.



  Dmitry Rogozin also said that Moscow is banning Washington from
  using Russian-made rocket engines, which the US has used to
  deliver its military satellites into orbit.


“We proceed from the fact that without guarantees that our
  engines are used for non-military spacecraft launches only, we
  won’t be able to supply them to the US,”Rogozin is cited as
  saying by Interfax news agency.



  If such guarantees aren’t provided the Russian side will also be
  unable to perform routine maintenance for the engines, which have
  been previously delivered to the US, he added.



  The US relies on Russian-made RD-180 and NK-33 engines to launch
  military and civilian satellites into space, with NASA saying
  it’s unlikely to produce a fully operational rocket engine of its
  own before 2020.



  According to Rogozin, Moscow also isn’t planning to agree to the
  US offer of prolonging operation of the International Space
  Station (ISS).


“We currently project that we’ll require the ISS until
  2020,” he said. “We need to understand how much profit
  we’re making by using the station, calculate all the expenses and
  depending on the results decide what to do next.”

“A completely new concept for further space exploration”
  is currently being developed by the relevant Russian agencies,
  the official explained.



  Previously, the US space agency, NASA, had asked Russia’s
  Roscosmos to keep the ISS in orbit till 2024.



  Relations between Moscow and Washington have seriously
  deteriorated after the accession into Russia of the Ukrainian
  Republic of Crimea, which refused to recognize the new
  coup-imposed authority in Kiev.



  The US and its EU partners have introduced several waves of
  sanctions against Russia, which have seen assets frozen and
  travel bans imposed on dozens of the country’s politicians and
  businessman, as well as the cessation of joint projects in
  different areas, including space.



  However, Rogozin stressed that Russia will apply restrictive
  measures of its own only as a response to sanctions imposed by
  the West.


“We won’t be first to adopt sanctions, especially in the
  high-tech area. For us it is a matter of employment of our
  specialists,” he said."
