"Kiev offers to repay Gazprom gas debts ‘in 10 days’ if discount price granted

Ukraine will pay back its staggering debts for Russian gas in just 10 days’ time – but only if Gazprom agrees to bring back the price agreed with ousted President Viktor Yanukovich for 2014, Ukraine’s coup-imposed PM said in his EU address.

“The Ukrainian side offers OJSC Gazprom to sign an additional
  agreement, which sets the price for natural gas for the year 2014
  to the amount of $268.5 per 1000 cubic meters, as was defined in
  the first quarter of 2014. After signing this agreement, Ukraine
  offers to settle the existing debts to the Russian side within 10
  days,” Arseny Yatsenyuk, said in a statement on Tuesday. The
  statement was addressed to the leaders of the European Commission
  and the European Union.
  
  Earlier last week, Gazprom CEO Aleksey Miller said
  that Russian gas supplies to Ukraine will be cut off if Kiev
  fails to pay its gas bills by June 2. A preliminary pre-payment
  bill for June has also been issued by the company to Ukraine’s
  Naftogaz. The Kiev government, which currently owes Gazprom an
  estimated of $3.5 billion, has refused to consider the bill.



  Claiming that the Russian side refuses to settle the gas prices
  issue, Yatsenyuk said in the Tuesday statement that “the
  question of advanced payment cannot appear on the agenda.”
  Moreover, Kiev again threatened to sue Gazprom at the
  international arbitration court in Stockholm at the end of May if
  the situation does not improve.
  
  Under the present terms, Kiev has to pay $485 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas. The price tag
  was raised in April from $268.50, after Russia withdrew all sorts
  of discounts for Ukraine. In April, Gazprom stopped the $100
  discount enjoyed by Kiev under the Kharkov Agreement on leasing
  the Crimean port of Sevastopol to station the Black Sea Fleet,
  which is now part of Russia. Another discount, secured by President Yanukovich at talks in Moscow
  in December 2013, was cancelled by the Russian gas giant on the
  grounds that Ukraine stopped paying its bills.
  
  The Russian government has repeatedly said that it is well aware of the fact that
  Kiev has the money to repay its gas debts, but has made no
  indications it is going to pay back even a fraction of the sum.
  
  On May 7, Kiev received $3.2 billion from the
  International Monetary Fund (IMF), the first tranche of a $17
  billion loan. On May 13, Ukrainian officials met with EU
  commission ministers and received assurances of 1.61 billion
  euros in macroeconomic loans for Ukraine to help with the current
  critical economic situation, with the first 100 million euro
  batch arriving on Monday. The US has also issued $1
  billion in loan guarantees to Ukraine through its Agency for
  International Development (USAID)."
