"A day that will live in infamy: The day Odessa citizens were savagely killed

Yesterday – May 2, 2014 – the day that Kiev radicals supported by the US government attacked and burnt to death civilians in Ukraine, is a day which will live in infamy.


  Those of us who grew up in the West after WWII believed that
  supporting anything resembling fascism was unthinkable. The moral
  degeneration of the US state and its NATO allies since that time
  is beyond belief. So too is the degeneration of the Washington
  Post, The New York Times, and other corporate media which have
  helped to delude large numbers of Americans into believing that
  Russia, which has killed or attacked no one,is somehow the
  aggressor in Ukraine.



  In reality, and on the ground, the US government – with no
  mandate from the American people –is supporting the Ukrainian
  'government' installed in a coup spearheaded by two
  ultra-nationalist parties, Svoboda and Right Sector. Now, in
  actions highly reminiscent of Hitler and his brown shirts, Right
  Sector oriented hooligans aided by military forces have just
  beaten with chains and baseball bats, and burned to death in the
  Trade Unions building, 39 civilians who were engaged in a protest
  in their own city of Odessa; civilians who were opposed to, and
  did not recognize, the new radical 'government.'



  I assume that if, say, the American Nazi party allied with some
  billionaires and took power in America, at least some Americans
  would also resist. They might even propose a referendum, as some
  eastern Ukrainian cities have, on whether to remain in the
  country. If you do not believe that Svoboda and Right Sector are
  Neo-Nazi, or that they do not now have substantial power in the
  ministries of the military and security apparatus of the new
  'government,' just look them up, and look at photos of their
  leaders and followers with Nazi-style armbands, Nazi-style flags,
  and Nazi-style badges, and the use of brown-shirt style bully
  boys, not to mention the leader of Svoboda giving the fascist
  salute.



  The Svoboda leader, Oleg Tyagnibok, whose party now controls key
  positions in the military and security apparatus of the
  self-appointed Ukrainian 'government,'is on record as saying the
  Ukrainians who collaborated with the Nazis during WWII were
  not afraid and went into the forest with their automatic rifles
  to kill Jews, Russians, and other filth.” He has also called
  for the ''cleansing” of Ukraine's “Russkie-Jid
  (Jewish) mafia” and praised convicted Nazi mass murderer
  John Demjanjuk as a “hero.”



  Following the surprise attack by the fascist Japanese government
  on the American naval base at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii in 1941,
  President Franklin Roosevelt began his speech to the American
  Congress with the words: Yesterday, December 7th, 1941 – a
  date which will live in infamy – the United States of America was
  suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the
  Empire of Japan.



  After that speech, the American government and people joined with
  the Soviet Union, China, Britain, Canada, and other nations in
  the momentous struggle to defeat fascism and its attempt to
  impose its racist ideology, holocaust, and tyranny on the whole
  world.



  Yesterday, the day that US-supported neo-fascists beat civilians
  with chains and clubs and burned them to death in a Trade Union
  Hall in Ukraine’s Odessa – this also is a day that will live in
  infamy.


Eric Sommer, for RT

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
