"?Le Pen on Ukraine crisis: US pursuing own interests, not those of EU

The EU is responsible for the developments in Ukraine, French right-wing leader Marine Le Pen said in an interview, stressing the bloc should have its own opinion on global events and not slavishly follow the America’s lead.

“The EU added fuel
  to the fire by offering the partnership to the country where half
  of the population is looking to the East,” Le
  PentoldDer Spiegel newspaper.


  Le Pen said she supports federalization in crisis-torn Ukraine,
  where the coup-appointed government has launched a massive
  military operation in the country’s eastern regions. The
  offensive has already claimed dozens of lives, both among the
  militias and local civilians. Schools, a kindergarten and
  hospitals in several cities have come under fire.



  The French leader warned the EU against falling into Washington’s
  steps, as those have nothing to do with Europe’s interests.


“The United States is trying to expand their influence in the
  world and first of all in Europe. They are pursuing their own
  interests, not ours,” Le Pen said.



  She went as far as to call the EU “an anti-democratic
  monster, where people’s right to self-determination is
  stolen.


I want to stop it [the EU] getting fatter, continuing to
  breathe, touching everything with its paws and reaching into all
  areas of our legislation with its tentacles, she said.



  Earlier Le Pen repeatedly stated that Russia is being unfairly
  “demonized” and that the campaign against the Russian
  political administration has been cooked up at the highest levels
  of EU leadership, with the implicit support of the US.


I am surprised a Cold War on Russia has been declared in the
  European Union, she said at a meeting with Russia’s State
  Duma speaker Sergey Naryshkin in April. It's not in line
  with traditional, friendly relations, or with the economic
  interests of our country or EU countries and harms future
  relations.


  Le Pen’s National Front far-right party in France has been
  steadily gaining popularity and scored a triumphant success in
  the latest EU elections by gaining around 25 percent of the
  votes."
