"US parrots Kiev claims detained Russian journalists were ‘aiding terrorists’

Washington has failed to condemn the detention of Russian journalists by Ukrainian troops, instead parroting Kiev’s accusations that they were abetting terrorists. The US appears to be biased in its attitude towards media professionals working in Ukraine.


  The two journalists working for Russia’s Life News TV channel had
  been detained by Kiev loyalist troops on Sunday in the turbulent
  Donetsk Region. Their continued detention has already sparked
  outrage from Moscow, calls for their swift release from the OSCE
  and Human Rights Watch, and a #SaveOurGuys hashtag wave on the Russian and Ukrainian
  Twittersphere.



  However Washington questions whether the detainees are
  journalists at all, despite their long records of working as
  media professionals.


“The Ukrainian Security Services, according to reports, have
  detained a number of people who were in possession of fake
  journalist credentials issued by the non-existent Donetsk
  People’s Republic,” US State Department spokeswoman Jen
  Psaki said at a daily press briefing.



  Denying journalists working in an armed conflict zone protection
  due to their failure to get credentials from one side of the
  conflict would be a peculiar turn for US foreign policy. If
  followed consistently, Washington would, for example, have to
  decry the work of journalists covering the Syrian civil war from
  the side of the rebel forces just because they didn’t vet their
  trips with Damascus. The issue was instantly raised at the
  briefing, but Psaki wouldn’t offer any comments.



  The correspondents’ whereabouts are currently unknown, although
  there are believed to be held by the Ukrainian Security Service
  (SBU). The last seen of the Life News journalists, Oleg Sidyakin
  and Marat Saichenko, was footage of them pinned down to the
  ground, their hands tied behind back and bag on their head, which
  was released on Monday by Kiev.



  On Tuesday, Ukrainian authorities claimed that the journalists
  had portable anti-aircraft missiles in the trunk of their car and
  accused them of aiding “terrorists,” as Kiev routinely calls
  armed militias opposing its rule in post-coup Ukraine. They
  failed to press official charges.



  Life News dismissed the claims as “unfounded speculations” and
  alleged that Kiev was taking revenge on their people for their
  shooting embarrassing footage of Ukrainian troops
  using a UN-badged strike helicopter in the Donetsk Region.



  But the US apparently takes the allegations at face value. Psaki
  reiterated them, calling the reports credible. When pressured she
  would not clearly state whether US agents on the ground actually
  confirmed Kiev’s claims.



  On Wednesday, Kiev released a video of Saichenko, who confesses
  to traveling in Ukraine on May 10 without informing the border
  guards of his intention of working there as a journalist. He says
  he and Sidyakin left all their journalistic credentials in Moscow
  to hide their profession, which is probably not true, because the
  footage of their detention clearly shows Saichenko’s press card
  issued by the Izvestia newspaper, for which he also did some
  coverage. There is no mention of the anti-aircraft missile in the
  statement.



  The US position on the detention of journalists in Ukraine is
  about managing public opinion, not about establishing facts,
  believes media analysts Danny Schechter.


“US officials are trained in the art of perception
  management. They don’t deal with facts. They deal with
  impressions and perceptions. If someone can be perceived as
  terrorist, that immediately would discredit anything they’ve done
  and their legitimacy as a professional,” he told RT.


“For years we in America were taught that all information
  coming from the other side was propaganda. Now what we are seeing
  is that a lot of what is coming from our side is
  propaganda.”


  Washington has a record of taking claims coming from the
  Ukrainian authorities for granted and gone as far as endorsing
  photo evidence which Kiev claimed proved the presence of Russian
  covert agents in Ukraine. This later proved false.



  In regards to journalists working in Ukraine, Washington’s
  “focus is more on continuing to press on the release of the
  international and Ukrainian journalists who have been detained by
  Russian separatists, and many for weeks, if not longer,”
  Psaki said. It’s not clear how mistreatment of journalists by
  Ukrainian militias justifies mistreatment of journalists by Kiev
  in the State Department’s eyes.



  Kiev has been oppressing media freedom for several months. It
  banned all Russian media in the country, labeling them
  ‘propaganda’. A group of nationalist MPs in Kiev beat a Ukrainian
  TV station head and forced him to resign over what the
  parliamentarians called “pro-Russian bias.” Russian journalists
  are often blocked from entering Ukraine on various pretexts, as
  happened with RT’s Arabic sister channel
  crew, which was tasked with covering Ukrainian presidential
  election.



  And RT is still trying to learn about the fate of contributing
  journalist Graham Phillips, who was apparently detained by Kiev troops in Mariupol on
  Tuesday. Ukrainian authorities had no comments on Phillips’
  detention. The UK Foreign Office said they “stand ready to
  provide consular assistance” to the missing UK citizen, while US
  State Department said it has no details concerning Phillips.



  Concerns for Phillips are fuelled by earlier threats against him
  by pro-Kiev activists. On Monday, a popular EuroMaidan Kharkov
  Facebook page called to “immediately detain and deport”
  Phillips, whom they believe is “cooperating with
  terrorists.” Earlier reports claimed radical nationalists in
  Ukraine are offering a bounty for the journalist’s head.



  Hotspot veteran & hotshot reporter: Who are Russian
  journalists taken by Kiev?



  The US may question it, but the two Russian journalists captured
  by Kiev’s troops are media professionals with a record of
  covering most dramatic events worldwide.



  Marat Saichenko has been working as photo correspondent and
  cameraman for almost 15 years. He was the first person to take
  pictures of former businessman Mikhail Khodorkovsky in a Russian
  prison, which required him to sit for hours in the cold cabin of
  a construction crane overlooking the prison.



  His professional career has taken him to places far and wide.
  Saichenko reported from the ground on the revolution in Egypt,
  the Libyan armed uprising and NATO bombing campaign, as well as
  the Syrian war. Going to Donetsk was the latest of many trips to
  flashpoints.



  His colleague in detention, Oleg Sidyakin, is a hotshot reporter
  with Live News, who has been among its staff for some six months
  now. Lately he has been active in Ukraine, reporting on the
  violent uprising in Kiev from the protester-filled streets."
