"Can Ukraine be pulled back from the brink?

Kiev’s military offensive into the east and south of Ukraine has all but ensured the failure of the Geneva agreement, setting the stage for a Russian response as NATO deploys troops to the region.


  As the bloody military crackdown continues in predominately
  Russian-speaking areas of the country, the deteriorating
  situation in Ukraine has given rise to appalling inter-ethnic
  violence. The wave of pro-autonomy protests has swept through at
  least 17 cities and towns in the east and south of Ukraine, as
  activists occupy public buildings to demonstrate their rejection
  of the putsch regime in Kiev that unconstitutionally usurped
  power in late February. Ukraine’s military – with assistance from
  ultra-nationalist militiamen aligned with the Right Sector – has
  focused its assault on key cities such as Slovyansk, Kramatorsk,
  and Lugansk. During clashes between pro-autonomy protestors and
  ultra-nationalists in Odessa, sources indicate that members of the Right
  Sector were behind the deadly fire set in the Trade Unions House
  in Odessa, which killed dozens of activists who holed themselves
  up inside the building. In towns and villages under siege,
  members of the Right Sector have allegedly opened fire on unarmed
  anti-Kiev activists attempting to block ultra-nationalist
  militias from entering their villages.



  These developments are extremely troubling when considering that
  members of the Right Sector and other groups with neo-Nazi ideals
  have been integrated into high positions in the
  Kiev regime. The group’s leader, Dmitry Yarosh, claims that all of the Right Sector’s
  actions are coordinated with the unelected authorities in Kiev.
  The agreement ironed out in Geneva on April 17 calling for an end
  to the occupation of public administration buildings and the
  disarming of all illegal military formations in Ukraine has not
  been observed by either side, while Kiev’s brutal offensive
  against pro-autonomy activists is an open transgression of the
  deal. Much like the agreement brokered in February prior to the
  ouster of former president Viktor Yanukovich, the putsch regime
  in Kiev has failed entirely to adhere to its commitments to make
  substantive steps in defusing the crisis. The EU and Washington
  have provided diplomatic and moral cover to Kiev despite its
  transparent failure to adhere to the Geneva deal by laying all
  the blame for this situation on Moscow’s shoulders. Despite
  making countless allegations against Moscow in the media and at
  the UN, the backers of the Kiev regime have yet to present any
  hard evidence of Russia’s direct support for demonstrators or
  involvement in eastern and southern Ukraine.



  Containment 2.0



  Just a few months ago, US Secretary of State John Kerry was vocal
  in his disapproval of the Yanukovich government’s crackdown on
  armed protestors at Maidan, where riot police used “bulldozers
  and batons” to disperse crowds. Leaders from the US and Europe
  denounced the elected government and championed the cause of the
  protestors as they occupied public buildings and called for
  regime change. In a remarkable turn-around, the Obama
  administration has extended its support for Kiev’s crackdown on
  pro-autonomy protestors, characterizing the operation as a
  proportionate and reasonable response to the turbulence in
  eastern Ukraine. Those same American and European leaders today
  denounce protestors as they occupy public buildings, while
  backing the unelected regime to the hilt. For the Obama
  administration to sanction Kiev’s assault on protesters with
  legitimate social grievances and democratic demands using tanks,
  helicopter gunships, and automatic weapons is an inexcusable
  display of hypocrisy and duplicity. Sources also indicate that
  the CIA and FBI are actively advising Kiev as it pursues
  military operations in the east, as many speculated following the
  recent visits of Joe Biden and CIA director John Brennan to
  Ukraine.



  It’s no secret that the United States is running the show in
  Ukraine. The Obama administration’s antagonistic stance towards
  Russia is proof enough that it does not objectively consider
  Moscow’s point of view. Washington’s actions prove that it is not
  a sincere negotiating partner in trying to defuse the turbulence
  in Ukraine – it is more interested in leveraging the crisis to
  cripple Russia’s economy and create a global consensus against
  Moscow. The New York Times recently reported on the Obama
  administration’s new strategy toward dealing with Moscow,
  describing the shift as “an updated version of the Cold War
  strategy of containment.” According to the report,
  Washington intends to turn Russia into a “pariah state”
  by severing its economic and political links to the outside
  world. It should be understood that the US has blatantly
  interfered in Ukrainian affairs by generously funding
  anti-Russian opposition forces, creating conditions for regime
  change, uncritically embracing the unelected government in Kiev –
  and now it is coordinating the putsch regime’s crackdown in a
  transparent violation of the terms agreed to in the April 17
  Geneva deal. The overall objective regarding US policy toward
  Ukraine centers on bringing the country into NATO’s security and
  economic orbit, which Russia perceives as a significant red line.
  The Obama administration has engineered the crisis in Ukraine,
  and is cynically exploiting the situation to posture and coax a
  Russian response, which would allow Washington to push the EU
  into playing along with sanctions against entire sectors of the
  Russian economy.



  Intervention or diplomacy?



  As the Kiev regime puts down genuine popular opposition with
  brute military force while neo-Nazi militias unleash pogroms
  against ethnic Russians across the east, the notion that a fair
  election can be held on May 25 as scheduled is highly
  questionable. The hastily organized vote is designed to
  legitimize the new authorities in Kiev, and if the polls are
  disturbed in any way, Moscow will shoulder the blame and endure
  another wave of sanctions. If the US and EU endorse Kiev’s
  military offensive in the east, then there is every reason to
  believe that they will turn a blind eye to Ukraine’s handling of
  dissent with force further down the line, especially when
  discontent rises as the population bears the full brunt of the
  austerity measures and fuel price increases dictated by IMF
  loan conditionalities. The failure of the US
  and EU to acknowledge Kiev’s failure to abide by the Geneva
  agreement has likely disenfranchised many in Moscow, some of whom
  may feel that pursuing a diplomatic approach is essentially a
  futile exercise. Moscow has previously stated that it would use
  “all means” to ensure the safety of ethnic Russians if they come
  under threat from Ukrainian forces, and given the current
  circumstances, some form of intervention may be conceivable.



  If Russia decides that the situation in eastern Ukraine has
  unraveled to the point of intervention being necessary, Moscow
  would face the heaviest barrage of international criticism and
  economic sanctions since the end of the Cold War. In a sense,
  Russia would be playing into the vitriolic anti-Putin narrative,
  and the consequences could lead to a situation where NATO is
  emboldened and reinvigorated in the face of so-called ‘Russian
  imperialism.’ Since the new authorities usurped power in Kiev,
  the US and its NATO allies have deployed troops in the Baltic
  states of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia, as well as Poland,
  bringing NATO forces a stone’s throw away from Russian borders.
  The potential danger of the current crisis spiraling into a hot
  war involving regional actors would be a grave and irreversible
  mistake. Washington maintains the highest degree of leverage over
  Kiev, and although its approach to dealing with Ukraine has been
  inflammatory and duplicitous, one would hope the Obama
  administration is sensible enough to discontinue the current
  policy of overplaying its hand.



  Russia has proven to be a reliable partner to the West over
  issues of mutual concern, such as countering the proliferation of
  nuclear weapons and strengthening global anti-terrorism
  cooperation, among other areas. Further deterioration of Russia’s
  relations with the West can be prevented, and Moscow should
  continue working toward a comprehensive solution to the situation
  in Ukraine that would see constitutional reforms to allow greater
  powers given to the Ukrainian parliament, guarantees on the
  multi-ethnic orientation of Ukrainian society, full protection of
  political and civil rights for minorities with the status of the
  Russian language protected, and ultimately an opportunity for
  residents of eastern and southern Ukraine to decide their own
  future through an autonomy referendum. The present scenario
  defies any simple resolution. As two previous attempts to chart a
  diplomatic solution to the crisis were entirely disregarded by
  Kiev and the West, conditions have been created that are not
  conducive to de-escalation. The danger now is that political
  posturing and the mutual assignment of blame can lead to a
  deepening violent destabilization of Ukraine.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
