"Duma Ñhairman warns PACE against glory seeking over fate of Ukraine

The Chairman of the State Duma has urged the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and its members not to make more mistakes over Ukraine and try to resolve the crisis in the country.


  To Her Excellency M-me Anne Brasseur,



  President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe



  On the day you receive this letter I plan to publish it in the
  media. This is the first time I have done such a thing, but am
  forced to act this way in order to be heard.



  This speaks volumes in itself. It tells us the media hysteria in
  Europe has reached a peak, and we have no more confidence in the
  formal means for exchanging opinions (nor in PACE debating
  procedures). As President of an assembly that is supposed to
  elicit truth by discussion, I’m sure you cannot but feel
  concerned about it. I am certain you wouldn’t want to go down in
  history as someone whose presidency saw PACE cease to exist as a
  representative body. And I doubt the present PACE members crave
  Herostratic fame as they undermine the efforts of the millions of
  Europeans who spent two decades forging a better future for our
  continent. It is obvious to me that their motives are sincere,
  and there is still some hope for them.



  Yet now is a moment of truth for all the people of Europe. I hope
  you take it for a fact that both Russia and Ukraine are European
  nations. But by now, it has also been established as a fact that
  it wasn’t Russia, but an ill-administered “EU
  integration” that has triggered mass human rights violations
  in Ukraine, and sparked unprecedented civil unrest in that
  country. It was the inept integration policies that have helped
  propel in Ukraine’s offices of power individuals who openly call
  for Nazism and segregation. I refuse to believe that you can
  consider those people “democrats,” or regard the Molotov
  cocktails dispatched across many of Ukraine’s regions as an
  indispensable part of EU integration.



  We don’t like this kind of integration. Neither do we like the
  crude anti-Russian campaign imposed from the outside, which the
  Russian delegation members have tried to convey to the Assembly.
  But their opinion was ignored, and you joined the side of those
  who hid their heads in the sand avoiding the truth and chose not
  to hear our arguments. However, it surprised me just as much that
  you didn’t support the European parliamentary system when
  so-called sanctions were imposed on the chosen representatives of
  an entire nation.



  Moreover, having silenced thirty Russian MPs at once, PACE not
  only fulfilled the ‘requirements on sanctions’, but exceeded
  them. In doing so, it punished itself, rejecting the opportunity
  to have at least one alternative point of view in the discussion
  of the complex Ukrainian problem. As Gogol put it [in his play
  The Government Inspector], “the sergeant’s wife flogged
  herself.”


  As the Duma Chairman, I find one other thing strange. It’s
  well-known that no democratic parliament ignores the violations
  of journalists’ rights. Freedom of speech, veracity of
  information, providing journalists with access to war zones were
  always one of the criteria of a government’s democratic or
  antidemocratic nature. They were used in PACE on numerous
  occasions, by the way, to throw mud at Russia during the North
  Caucasus conflict.



  I don’t believe you are unaware of that and I don’t believe you
  are unaware of the blatant violations of journalists’ rights in
  Ukraine and the ban imposed on Russian media workers trying to
  enter the country. Tell me, why is such a burning issue swept
  under the carpet in PACE and the lying anti-Russian propaganda is
  spread in the European media instead? Who is being intimidated
  and for what purpose? Surely not to create new confrontation
  zones?



  You have to be not only deaf (which the Assembly has successfully
  been doing), but also absolutely blind not to see the
  similarities between the Kiev ‘Euromaidan’ and the destructive
  events that took place on the squares of Arab countries during
  the notorious Arab Spring. I assume you know that ‘maidan’ is
  Arabic for ‘square’. How many European squares, do you think, can
  be chosen as testing areas for ideological diversions by external
  forces? Or do you not consider Kiev a European city?



  I strongly urge you not to generate tension right on the EU
  borders. It’s a dangerous game, especially if you use only the
  convenient facts and disinformation. Instead, you should have
  brought the nationalists in Kiev to heel and demanded Maidan be
  cleared of bandits back in January and February. In March, you
  should have spent less time with the new Kiev authorities, and
  more in south-eastern Ukraine to study the situation thoroughly
  and meet the people, not to mention personally attend the
  referendum in Crimea.



  I am sorry you didn’t want to see the people’s joy and happiness
  for yourself, both when whole families came to the polling
  stations and when the results were announced. I’m convinced that
  if you and other members of PACE had been there, the PACE
  resolution on the subject wouldn’t characterize the outcome as
  “implausible”. The truth cannot be bent, it’s either there or
  it’s not. There’s no third option.



  And lastly, you can’t turn a blind eye to the fact that the
  Ukrainian authorities allow Nazi followers to openly march in the
  streets. The explosives and guns that the protesters started
  using in Maidan are now pretty much common in Ukraine. The
  country’s economy is ravaged, and the number of robberies and
  other crimes is steadily growing. I’m afraid that by now not only
  individuals, but whole families stock up on arms for
  self-defense. And the only reason for that is because the current
  Ukrainian authorities are unable to maintain law and order and
  protect civilians. I think you understand very well what this
  might lead to, just like you understand who was really
  responsible for murdering and burning alive the people in Odessa.
  The Ukrainians themselves started calling this heinous neo-Nazi
  crime ‘the Odessa Khatyn’. Will you really look the other way
  now, when the entire world is shocked by this tragedy? I believe
  urgent inter-parliamentary consultations on the Ukrainian problem
  are needed, with Russia as one of the participants. I am very
  sorry that these terrible events unfold during your presidency. I
  realize you’re having a difficult time right now, but PACE and
  the Council of Europe should safeguard human rights and help
  protect people’s lives and interests.



  ***



  Of course, I would like to tell you a great deal more. My letter
  is addressed not only to you but to all the honest members of the
  Assembly. However, you personally have considerable power and
  political experience and you know how important the President’s
  position is in terms of ensuring a comprehensive dialogue. I’m
  convinced that even with the mistakes already made there’s still
  a chance to restore peace in Ukraine. We can’t pass it up. But I
  will say this again: it will be impossible to achieve without
  Russia.



  Dear Madame President, restoring trust is of vital importance to
  all of us. We need to listen to each other, no matter how
  difficult a task that might seem. So again, I urge all of our
  PACE colleagues to listen to the voice of reason. We, as
  parliament members, can’t cross the line and cause irreversible
  consequences for the future of the entire Europe, and maybe even
  the entire world.



  And so I ask you and all the Assembly members who really want to
  resolve the Ukrainian crisis not to make any more mistakes. I
  hope that the Russian delegation’s rights in PACE will be fully
  restored. After such a decision is made, I am willing to
  personally attend a PACE session and address its members."
