"OTTAWA, April 29./ITAR-TASS/. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper decreed on Monday to introduce a set of sc in regard to nine Russian individuals and two banks explaining the decision by Russia’s stance on the Ukrainian crisis.

Our government has been very clear that any further intimidation or actions to de-stabilize the Ukrainian government will result in consequences, the premier said in a statement.

The sanctions envisage travel bans for nine Russian nationals, who are Oleg Belaventsev, the Russian presidential envoy to the Crimean Federal District, Vyacheslav Volodin, the first deputy head of the Russian presidential administration, Dmitry Kozak, a deputy prime minister, Yevgeny Murov, the head of the Federal Protective Service, Alexei Pushkov, a lawmaker, Alexander Babakov, a lawmaker, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a lawmaker, Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, who are both businessmen.

The sanctions were also imposed on two Russian banks, namely ExpoBank and RosEnergoBank, but the nature of sanctions was not clarified in the statement.

Harper’s statement followed the United States’ introduction of a third set of sanctions against Russia on Monday. The new US measures envisioned sanctions against seven Russian officials as well as 17 country’s companies.

The United States imposed sanctions against Russia in response to its stance over Crimea’s status. On March 17, Washington announced a black list including 11 Russian and Ukrainian officials. In March and April, the list has been expanded several times. To date, the list includes several dozens of people, who, as US authorities believe, undermine Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.

In addition, the United States has suspended cooperation with Russia in the field of combating drug trafficking and in the space industry (except for the International Space Station project), and introduced restrictions for supplying military and double-purpose products to Russia.

The situation in Ukraine is far from stable after a coup in February, which brought to power new people amid deadly riots as President Viktor Yanukovich had to leave the country citing security concerns.

Crimea, where most residents are Russians, refused to recognize the new self-proclaimed Ukrainian authorities. Crimeans overwhelmingly voted in a referendum on March 16 to secede from Ukraine and join the Russian Federation. The reunification deal with Moscow was signed on March 18.

After Crimea's accession to Russia, which Kiev and Western countries do not accept despite Russia’s repeated statements that the Crimean plebiscite was in line with the international law, protests against the new Kiev leaders erupted in Ukraine’s Russian-speaking south-eastern regions. Demonstrators, who are demanding referendums on the country’s federalization, took control of some government buildings."
