"Japan-based US drones to spy on China, N. Korea – report

Tokyo wants to buy several Global Hawk drones to monitor the Chinese and North Korean military, Japanese media reports. The US is deploying two of these large military drones to its base in Japan, despite protests and an absence of local air regulations.


  The US Air Force plans to deploy two unmanned aerial vehicles
  (UAVs) to Misawa Air Base as early as late May, The Yomiuri
  Shimbun reports. According to the bilateral agreement officially
  acknowledged by the Japanese Defense Ministry, the drones are to
  stay there until October and may also be redeployed next year.
  
  The base, located some 590 kilometers northeast of Tokyo, will
  host 40-meter-wide, 14.5-meter-long Northrop Grumman RQ-4 Global
  Hawk drones, which the US has previously used in military
  operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The reported grounds for the
  relocation have been “more favorable weather conditions”
  in the area than Guam’s, where the drones are currently
  stationed.
  
  However, a senior official source at Japan’s Air Self-Defense
  Force (ASDF) has been more precise in defining the drones’ tasks
  while they are in the country. The source also confirmed Japan
  wants to get several Global Hawks of its own for reconnaissance.
  “The Global Hawk provided us with a wealth of data, including
  surveillance of the crippled reactors at Tokyo Electric Power
  Co.’s Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant. The device will be
  effective in surveying the activities North Korean and Chinese
  military,” the source told The Yomiuri Shimbun.
  
  A whole US-Japanese fleet of drones may be operating at Misawa
  Air Base as early as 2015, “watching Chinese naval ship
  movements in the South China Sea” and gathering other
  intelligence in the region, according to the report. Tokyo said
  earlier that it was concerned by Beijing’s operation of its
  aircraft, including UAVs, in the region.



  However, the problem that the Japanese government has to face is
  that no clear regulation on unmanned aerial vehicles exists in
  the country. The national law defines aircraft as an aerial
  vehicle “with a person on board,” and the only existing
  guidelines on fixed-wing drones were set by Japan’s UAV
  Association, saying they can only fly up to 150 meters above the
  ground over unpopulated areas.
  
  Global Hawk drones have an operational altitude of up to 18,000
  meters and can fly for 30 hours.
  
  Japanese authorities have already notified operators of small
  planes and others flying near the Misawa Air Base to contact the
  Misawa control tower if their altitude is 6,100 meters or lower.
  Similar warnings have been made in regards to Sapporo.
  
  According to Japanese media, the US can get away with flying
  their drones in Japan even without a regulatory law in place
  because of the Japan-US Security Treaty, while ASDF cannot.
  
  This has not pleased some of the local residents, who in April
  marched in front of the Misawa Air Base to express their
  opposition to the deployment of US drones.
  
  While some Japanese view the US forces stationed in the country
  as a protection against the “Chinese threat,” others
  still remember the atrocities committed by US servicemen in
  Japan, including the infamous 1995 Okinawa rape incident, in
  which a 12-year-old girl was raped by three soldiers.
  
  Discussions on new flight safety regulations have reportedly been
  planned between Japanese ministries, but no details on when such
  legislation may be adopted have been revealed."
