"Second MERS case in US confirmed in Orlando hospital

The second US case of a deadly Middle Eastern virus has been confirmed in Florida, according to federal and state health officials. Florida’s case of Middle East respiratory syndrome comes just days after the first patient was released from the hospital.


  The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Florida
  Department of Health announced the MERS case ten days after the
  first case was confirmed in Indiana. That infected
  patient was an unnamed healthcare worker who traveled from
  Saudi Arabia to Indiana.



  The CDC and Florida Department of Health announced during a press
  conference Monday that the second patient is also a healthcare
  worker living and working in Saudi Arabia. The person was
  hospitalized in isolation in Orlando, Fla., during a visit with
  family. Officials said the patient flew from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
  to London, and began to feel unwell on that flight. The MERS
  victim then flew from London to Boston, arriving in the US on May
  1, then flying through Atlanta before arriving in Orlando. The
  patient did not visit any theme parks in Orlando.



  The CDC is working to identify and contact more than 500 people
  who were on the same domestic flights as the patient, who was
  hospitalized May 8 and is doing well, officials said. They would
  not give any identifying characteristics about the person,
  including age or gender. The officials did say they believe the
  patient was working in a Saudi Arabian facility dealing with the
  MERS virus, but were unsure if the sickened healthcare worker was
  dealing directly with those patients.



  The Indiana patient, a man in his 60s who had been living and
  working in Saudi Arabia, was released from the hospital on
  Friday, according to the NBC News. “The patient has tested
  negative for MERS, is no longer symptomatic and poses no threat
  to the community,” Alan Kumar, chief medical information
  officer at the Community Hospital in Munster, Ind., said,
  according to the 
  Washington Post. The hospital talked to the CDC before
  releasing the patient, the hospital said.



  MERS was first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012. It is a viral
  respiratory illness caused by a coronavirus. The symptoms include
  fever, cough and shortness of breath. It is also deadly: 30
  percent of people who contracted MERS have died.



  The virus - similar to SARS or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome,
  another coronavirus - spreads through close contact with ill
  people (such as caring for or living with an infected person),
  but has not spread in a sustained way in communities, the CDC
  says. There are no specific treatments for the virus, and medical
  care focuses on treating the symptoms. The virus’ incubation
  period - the time between exposure to the virus and the onset of
  symptoms - is about five days. The CDC recommends people who
  develop a fever and cough or shortness of breath within two weeks
  of traveling from countries in or near the Arabian Peninsula
  should see a doctor right away.



  Since the virus appeared two years ago, 538 cases have been
  confirmed in a dozen countries, and 145 people have died from
  MERS, two more cases than the 
  World Health Organization reported on Friday. Those countries
  include Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman, Jordan
  and Kuwait. Travel-related cases have been confirmed in the
  United Kingdom, France, Tunisia, Italy, Malaysia and now the US.
  Over 450 people have been infected in Saudi Arabia alone, and 118
  of them have died, CDC officials said, citing the WHO.



  Last Tuesday, a patient in the Washington, DC area was
  hospitalized with what may be MERS, according to Turner Radio
  Network.


In the greater Washington area, a patient traveling from
  Saudi Arabia last month is suspected of having MERS and is now
  hospitalized at Children's National Medical Center, Aegis
  Health Security said in a statement, according to TRN. The
  patient is isolated as the CDC follows testing and evaluation
  protocols.

Hospital management and health care practitioners may or may
  not officially confirm or deny the existence of a patient being
  evaluated at this time, Aegis said of the DC case. The
  CDC will make the official determination of whether the patient
  has MERS. It can be expected that the CDC will have results by
  the middle of this week based on standard protocols.


  The WHO 
  warned at the end of April that cases of MERS could increase
  with warm weather. “The occurrence of new cases seems to
  follow a seasonal pattern, with increasing incidence from
  March?April onwards. The number of cases sharply increased since
  mid?March 2014, essentially in [Saudi Arabia] and UAE, where two
  important healthcare?associated outbreaks are occurring,”
  the WHO said in a press release.



  The WHO also noted that as much as 75 percent of reported MERS
  cases are secondary, meaning they were acquired from another sick
  person. Both the WHO and CDC believe that the virus originated in
  camels. “Although camels are suspected to be the primary
  source of infection for humans, the exact routes of direct or
  indirect exposure remain unknown. Investigations to identify the
  source of infection and routes of exposure are still
  [ongoing],” the WHO said."
