"'Kept in dugout, tied up with sacks on heads': Russian journos on Ukraine detention

Two Russian journalists held in detention in Ukraine for several days say they were kept in a dug-out cell with sacks on their heads, their hands and legs tied. They claim their lives were also threatened.


  It all started when the two moved towards the airport near
  Kramatorsk to check the information provided by the locals that
  the Ukrainian forces had left it.


“Next to the airport, we ended up being at gunpoint by
  Ukrainian law enforcement officials. We raised our hands and
  shouted that we are journalists,” cameraman Saichenko said.



  About 12 people jumped from two armored vehicles and opened fire
  over the journalists’ heads. They were surrounded, searched,
  pushed in to the armored vehicle. The military men also took
  their belongings.



  No reasons were given for their detention, everyone just
  “kept poking at them with machine guns,” Sidyakin said.


“We told them we’re journalists, that we had no weapons, that
  we were on an official mission from our editors. But they weren’t
  convinced. In an hour we were pushed in the same armored vehicles
  and took to a field, and then loaded us into helicopters. When we
  arrived, we were forced to keep our heads close to the ground not
  to see anyone’s faces… In response to our requests to call
  someone, we were hit on the head,” Sidyakin added.



  The journalists also said that initially, they were given “no
  food at all, only gave us some water overnight.”

“While we were waiting for the helicopter, we were shown an
  ‘Igla’ [needle] MANPAD [Man-Portable Air Defense] and told that
  we were Russians, and that is a Russian weapon. When they were
  loading us into the helicopter, they also took that weapon. All
  the military men were sure that they had caught separatists and
  terrorists who had this thing with them,” Saichenko
  continued.


“During the questioning, they used some ointment that was
  supposed to lead to some result. But there was none, so they got
  angry,” Sidyakin said.


“The guards told us that we would be shot down by dawn
  anyway, and asked us to take off our trainers so that they could
  have them [while they were still] clean,” Saichenko said.



  The journalists said that the military men wanted them to admit
  that the weapon had been in their possession.


“They were trying to force us to confess that it was our
  MANPAD… We didn’t take any weapons in our hands, even ammunition,
  as it contradicts our profession,” Sidyakin said.



  When asked what kind of people they saw during their detention,
  the journalists stressed that the contingent was most diverse at
  the airport.


“There were many mercenaries. There were people in uniforms
  uncharacteristic for Ukraine. They didn’t speak with anyone, just
  silently entered the HQ. It remains a mystery to us who they
  were.”


  Despite not having heard anything spoken in English, Sidyakin
  said there were many people “uniformed and equipped
  Western-style, their behavior was strange, and so was their
  demeanor and the fact they weren’t talking to anyone.”


  Saichenko remarked that, in his opinion, the Ukrainian army has a
  very disconnected structure.


“Having spent some time within the Ukrainian army and felt
  what it’s like, we understood that it is a very divided body.
  Many conscripts, including those who guarded us, complained that
  they should have been fired a long time ago, but haven’t been
  dismissed up to that moment. They complained about the quality of
  food,” Saichenko said.


“A young man who used to romanticize Maidan [the heart of the
  Kiev protest earlier in the year] was among them and he told us
  that now “he understands what he was caught up in…”
  Saichenko added.



  Earlier, Saichenko said that Ukrainian law enforcement officials
  threatened to kill him and his colleague, reporter Oleg Sidyakin,
  and did everything possible to make the two would believe in the
  seriousness of their intentions.



  Their hands were tied behind their backs, their legs were taped
  up, and sacks were put on their heads. The sacks were also taped
  up on their necks, so it was barely possible to breathe.


“My state was close to madness, it was very bad. I was hit on
  the head and kicked into the groin a couple of times, but I would
  prefer being beaten to the way we were held in that hole,”
  Saichenko said.



  Saichenko also said that despite the hate, there was always room
  for hope.


“We were surrounded by hatred. Our guards believed that we
  were terrorists. I was told that I could be taken to the toilet
  and shot dead because I supposedly was trying to escape. We spent
  two days in that dug-out cell, and then four days in a closed
  room. But we still understood that we would be fought for, that
  our case would make it to the top. We were certain that President
  Putin and other leaders would fight for us,” he said.



  Despite everything they’ve been through, Sidyakin and Saichenko
  are leaving the possibility that they will go to Ukraine to cover
  events there open, if the channel’s leadership approves their
  work trip – but not because they’re daredevils.


“I’ve always justified my presence in such places with the
  idea that I need to show that war is bad, that it’s suffering,
  death,” Saichenko stressed.



  He says they signed a document which said that they, as LifeNews
  journalists, “pledge not to inflict any harm on Ukraine and
  the Ukrainian people.”

Video:
  /files/news/27/65/c0/00/journalists1300_480p.mp4


  The Russian journalists for LifeNews TV channel were captured by
  Kiev forces near the eastern city of Kramatorsk a week ago.



  They were being investigated on charges of “aiding terrorist
  groups,” according to Kiev authorities, who refused to give
  any information about their location and denied a special
  observer mission access to the journalists.



  The accusations of illegally transporting weapons and aiding
  terrorism against Russian journalists are “nonsense and
  delirium,” President Putin said earlier, calling the
  situation “unacceptable” and warning that Kiev’s
  crackdown on reporters working in Ukraine will affect Moscow’s
  relations with the “new Ukrainian authorities.”


  It was a plea by the UN and the OSCE that made the Ukrainian
  authorities change their mind and stop trying to build a case
  against the journalists, deputy chief of the Ukrainian Security
  Service (SBU) clarified.


“Ambassadors and representatives of the UN and the OSCE have
  turned to SBU. We decided to accommodate these two particular
  organizations,” Victor Yagun said at a briefing.



  But according to LifeNews Channel, envoys of Chechen president
  Ramsan Kadyrov have led the negotiations, yet kept it away from
  the public as a safety precaution several days, while a plane
  ready to depart at a moment’s notice was for waiting for
  negotiations results."
