"Tear gas in Ukraine’s Donetsk as activists seize Prosecutor’s Office (PHOTOS)

May Day celebrations in Donetsk, eastern Ukraine, have turned violent as pro-autonomy activists seized the local Prosecutor’s Office. Police responded with tear gas and stun grenades but later relinquished their weapons.


  The storming of the Donetsk Region Prosecutor’s Office began as
  several dozen shield-holding protesters pelted rocks and petrol
  bombs at the building while chanting “Fascists!,” as
  they tried to break in.



  Twenty-six people sustained injuries, including gunshot wounds,
  as a result of the storm and clashes, RIA Novosti reported,
  citing Donetsk officials. Two of them have been hospitalized. The
  Interior Ministry said that one National Guard soldier was
  wounded.



    Protesters tell us police fired rubber bullets.  how can they
    do that against peaceful demo #donetskpic.twitter.com/pXExswtdkA
    — Roza Kazan (@rozakazancctv) 
    May 1, 2014


  The activists demanded that law enforcers come out of the
  building and surrender, while about 200 police remained inside.
  Initially, the police hit back with tear gas and stun grenades,
  but later refrained from using force and took cover under shields
  as protesters continued to throw stones.



  “Some security forces are laying down their shields, letting
  activists take them,” RT’s correspondent in Ukraine, Paula
  Slier reported on Twitter.



  Eventually, the activists entered the building as the police
  left, removed the Ukrainian national flag, burned it and replaced
  it with the flag of the self-proclaimed People’s Republic of
  Donetsk.



  The protesters formed a so-called “shame corridor” to
  let law enforcers out of the building, according to
  Interfax-Ukraine.



  After the police were defeated, the crowd cheered the victors
  with a “well done!” chant and held a demonstration in front of
  the building.



    People form human chain as police from inside is removed
    #Donetskpic.twitter.com/Y7pF2qnOft
    — Roza Kazan (@rozakazancctv) 
    May 1, 2014


  May Day celebrations in Donetsk, one of the largest cities in
  crisis-torn Ukraine, began peacefully, with up to 300 communists
  marching through the city on Thursday morning. Waving hammer and
  sickle flags, they chanted: “Fascism will not pass,” and
  sang Soviet songs.



  Later in the day, the communist march was followed by several
  thousands of anti-government protesters taking to the streets to
  demand a referendum on more autonomy from Kiev and a release of
  anti-government protesters.



  Activists staged a rally in the city center calling for a boycott
  on the upcoming presidential elections. They also demanded
  freedom for the “people’s governor” of Donetsk”, Pavel Gubarev, who has been under arrest in
  Kiev since early March.



  Thousands demonstrate for autonomy in eastern Ukraine on May Day



  May Day, also known as International Worker's Day, was marked by
  demonstrations in cities across southeastern Ukraine on Thursday.



  In Odessa, a port city on the Black Sea, about 2,000 activists –
  including supporters of the federalization of Ukraine and
  leftists – held a march to mark the holiday, which used to be one
  of the most important days during the Soviet era.



  Activists from the People’s Alternative movement set up a tent
  camp in the city center to collect signatures in support of a
  referendum that would give regions more autonomy and grant the
  Russian language status of the second official language in
  Ukraine, Itar-Tass reported.



  Protesters vowed to stay at the site until authorities fulfilled
  their demands regarding a popular vote and released all
  protesters arrested by Ukrainian security services.



  “We want to build a bright future and take all the best we
  had in the past. The people who come to our rallies have an
  ideology unlike those who have likened ideas to the contents of
  their refrigerators,” Oleg Muzyka, one of the leaders of the
  Rodina (Fatherland) party, said.



  Local media reported that several radical protesters called on
  demonstrators to storm the Odessa administration building, but
  were ousted from the crowd.



  In Kharkov – Ukraine’s second largest city – a May Day
  demonstration was held next to the monument to Lenin, the
  Bolshevik Revolution leader. Just like in neighboring regions,
  traditional Soviet slogans were accompanied by anti-government
  chants as communists were joined by autonomy supporters. Later, a
  group of activists waving flags of the so-called People’s
  Republic of Kharkov split from the main event and moved on to the
  city administration building, which was being heavily guarded by
  law enforcement. No major incidents were reported."
