"‘Ukrainian economy is caving in on itself’

The IMF loan to Ukraine is just a sort of band aid to hold it together, while harsh austerity measures will only worsen the situation for the poor Ukrainian people rather than bail out them, editor of Business New Europe Ben Aris, told RT.


  This March the IMF announced that it would give Ukraine up to $18
  billion in order to help the country avoid the default. However,
  the IMF also demands huge economic reforms in return.


RT:Ukraine is certainly in need of money.
  So what's wrong with getting help from the IMF then?

Ben Aris: It’s in desperate need of money. The
  country is virtually bankrupt, it is living from hand to mouth,
  running on fumes, and the IMF has stepped in with a program that
  should be over two years, so they are looking for some $17
  billion this year. However, it comes with strings attached and
  there lies a problem. The balls are now very firmly into the
  government’s court and they need to come up with a reform program
  because when all is said and done they can’t buy their way out of
  crisis, they need to fix the economy and that money is just a
  sort of plaster to hold it together while they are getting on
  with that work. That is going to be extremely difficult, it’s
  hard to express just how sick the Ukrainian economy is; it is one
  of only two countries in the whole fifteen republics of the
  former Soviet Union that has yet to reach its 1991 level. So they
  have everything to do before them and of course doing that in a
  very tense and unstable political situation.


RT:The IMF claims the economic reforms will
  take care of the most vulnerable there, but what actually can
  they do for people in reality?

BA: It’s about putting the economy back on to a
  stable footing and that means getting control of deficits - the
  current account deficit is very high, the budget deficit is very
  high, the economy itself is in a free fall, the government is
  saying it is going to contract by 3 percent, the program
  announced today actually assumes 5 percent and the analysts are
  saying that the contraction could be as severe as 10 percent.
  This is an economy caving in on itself. And in order to do that
  they are going to have to introduce some very harsh austerity. By
  that I mean they are going to cut the public sector, they are
  going to cut wages, they are going to cut what they call an
  overly generous pension, and at the same time they are going to
  have to raise taxes. So the poor Ukrainian people, rather than
  being bailed out by the IMF, are going to be face the sort of
  austerity that the populations of Greece and Cyprus have seen, if
  not even more harsh, even more difficult to pay, and that of
  course will cause problems. The promises that have been made by
  the EU association and IMF bailout have led people to believe
  that once the rest comes to help, then everything is going to get
  better, and actually in the short term it’s going to get a lot
  worse for the average person.


RT:Meanwhile, Transparency International
  ranks Ukraine as a highly corrupt country. Is the IMF worried
  about what might happen to their cash do you think?

BA: This is actually one of the core problems.
  The corruption is a function of the fact that in the last 10
  years no government, neither Blue, nor Orange, has actually
  attempted to even begin the process of building up new
  institutions of the functioning government. So the first thing
  the government is going to have to do is try to put all of these
  pieces together to build the machinery of normal government, and
  that is going to be very difficult. Part and parcel of that is
  stamping out corruption. Transparency called it the most corrupt
  country in eastern Europe and it has similar problems with press
  freedom, human rights… it has the whole gamut of issues to deal
  with. Just now we are turning to the work of rebuilding the
  country, whereas most of the countries of the region have been at
  it for the 10 years.


RT:Where does this leave Moscow? Will it
  help in the future if things go really bad?

BA: One of the ironies is that the first tranche
  is going to be delivered immediately… $3 billion… a large part of
  that is going to end up in Russia’s coffers to pay for gas and
  bond payments. At the end of the day, some of the people in
  Ukraine have intimated that to rescue Ukraine is impossible
  without cooperation and partnership with Russia. Russia remains a
  key trading partner, it also heavily invested into the economy,
  it banks there and main crediting organizations are actually
  still functioning and for Ukraine to prosper and become healthy
  again, it’s inconceivable that they can do it without Russia. At
  the same time we have the European association agreement, but EU
  membership is not on the table, and EU membership would come with
  all the structural reforms that it desperately needs. The
  Ukrainian economy is actually dragging the Russian economy down
  and so it’s in Russian interests to see something done. But
  obviously where we stand for the moment, we have a long way from
  having a three-way conversation between the EU, Kiev and Moscow.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
