"Kiev army shells Kramatorsk, city Сleft without waterТ Ц self-defense coordinator

The Ukrainian army shelled the eastern city of Kramatorsk on Sunday as fierce clashes erupted between Kiev's military and self-defense forces who stopped the APC convoy from entering the city, local activists said.


  A military convoy comprised of six APCs approached the city from
  the northwest and began shelling it, a member of the self-defense
  forces told RIA Novosti.


УAbout 10 fighters wearing black uniforms with no markings,
  as well as several people in camouflage, were sitting on top of
  each combat vehicleФ as the convoy tried to enter the city,
  another member of the self-defense forces told Itar-Tass. He
  believes National Guard and Right Sector militants were among
  them.



  Powerful explosions and intense shooting, including shots from
  large-caliber guns, could be heard even from the city center,
  according to witnesses. Residents also said that a civil defense
  siren was heard in the city.



  Several self-defense checkpoints have been reportedly attacked by
  Kiev's army, and a factory in the suburbs was set on fire.



  One resident was injured at a bus stop as the Kiev military
  shelled the city. Self-defense members helped her emerge from the
  debris.
  УThe public transport stop is 40 meters from a nine-story
  apartment building. If the shell would have hit it, the
  consequences would be much more tragic,Ф the self-defense
  member said, as quoted by Itar-Tass.



    ќстановка в  раматорске pic.twitter.com/HEutoddNqo
    Ч ™¬–ќћј…ƒјЌ (@euromaidan) May
    18, 2014


  A resident of Kramatorsk posted a video on YouTube showing that
  his ninth floor apartment had been shot at. The footage shows a
  bullet hole in his window and another one in a wall.



  Water and gas lines have also been shelled, and all of the
  residents of Kramatorsk have been left without water,
  self-defense coordinator Maksim Vlasov told RIA Novosti. Some are
  now also without gas, local media reported, citing Karmatorsk
  deputy Mayor Andrey Bessonny.
  
  A resident told RT that he believes the Kiev military used
  Уgrad multiple launch rockets or howitzersФ to shell the
  city.
  I served in the army and during my service I have never
  heard such shots. They are getting louder and louder. A
  checkpoint is behind the house and one or two workshops of the
  factory are burning. Fifteen people are staying under my window,
  all with rifles and grenade launchers,  Kramatorsk resident
  Evgeny added.



    ¬  раматорске в завод  «“— попало 2 снар€да, со стороны
    ясногорки прорываютс€ 6 бтро, инфа не точна 
    # раматорск
    #ј“ќpic.twitter.com/YgZG6zNeQC
    Ч KramUA (@DonnieDarkko) May
    18, 2014


  Meanwhile, loud blasts and repeated heavy gunfire have been heard
  in the eastern city of Slavyansk, not far from Kramatorsk,
  according to freelance journalist Graham Phillips, reporting for
  RT.
  
  The fighting comes after the Thursday ultimatum made by Donetsk
  self-defense forces, warning Kiev that if Kiev's troops did not
  withdraw from checkpoints in the Donetsk region within 24 hours,
  they would be taken by force."
