"MOSCOW, May 16 (RIA Novosti) - Talking to RIA Novosti, Michael Rivero, US peace activist and talk show host, gave his account of why US Vice President's son has taken a job in Ukraine, who in the US is interested in escalation of Ukrainian conflict and what drives the tensions.

This week US Vice President's youngest son Hunter Biden joined the board of directors of Ukraine's largest oil company. This isn't the first time a representative of the US political elite has been involved economically in the region targeted by US foreign policy, another example is Elizabeth Cheney, and allegedly Secretary John Kerry's family.  Is it right to say that most of the wars waged by America abroad are fought based on economic interests, not necessarily national?

As I describe in the article All Wars Are Bankers' Wars most if not all wars, coup d'?tats, and assassinations in United   States history have their roots in the economy. The US has a long history of allowing the financial system, which is inherently unstable due to the practice of allowing a private bank to issue the public currency as a loan at interest, to reach a point of collapse, and then use a major war to try to correct the mess, or at least distract the public from it. 

The crash of 1907 was followed by WWI. The crash of 1929 was followed by WW2. Finally, in the aftermath of the crash of 2008 the US has already invaded or bombed or covertly tried to overthrow 17 countries on two continents. Technically, this is already WWIII.

Given how much war costs to any economy, US not an exception, how can you account for the elites valuing their interests above the losses a campaign of such kind can incur for the entire nation?

It is the curse of political power that it attracts the very type of people who should not be allowed to have it. Such people, comfortable with their wealth and authority, are incapable of comprehending the pain and suffering their decisions cause for ordinary people. Such leaders come to view the people merely as parts of the machine of the nation, or tokens to be played in a great game of conquest. Henry Kissenger once described soldiers by saying Military men are just dumb, stupid animals to be used as pawns in foreign policy.  

When a ruler decides to start a war, they have made the conscious calculated decision to send vast numbers of their own people to death and dismemberment.

Our nations' financial elites are addicted to money. We call them the money-junkies. No matter how much wealth they have, they must have more. It is provably an addictive process, indeed could be seen as a mental illness. Like other addicts, such as drug addicts, they are oblivious to the harm caused to others by their addictions.

What is the stake in the Ukrainian conflict that the US government is so eagerly promoting as a foreign policy priority?

In the case of Ukraine, there is another aspect driving the hostility. Since the end of WWII, the United States has engaged in a program of covert overthrows of other nations, to replace uncooperative governments with puppet regimes. Two of the most famous are Iran in 1953 and Chile in 1973.  In total, since the end of WWII, the United   States has tried to overthrow the governments of 57 other nations, succeeding 25 times.

This is what happened two months ago in Ukraine. The elected government rejected an offer to merge with the European Union, which like the US allows a privately-owned central bank to issue all of the public currency as a loan at interest. Russia made Ukraine a better offer, and so Ukraine chose to go with that deal.  It was at that point that the United States staged yet another attempt at a covert overthrow using agents-provocateurs to drive the elected government from power and replace them with an unelected junta.

Then something wholly unexpected happened. Crimea broke away, and now other eastern cities are doing the same. Up until now every US covert overthrow of a government resulted in the people of the regime-changed nation simply following their new leaders as they had the old.  But now the people of these nations are taking the approach of allowing the US to keep the capitol city, and seceding to form new nations (or to join with Russia).

This practice, is allowed to continue, effectively ends the US' ability to conquer a nation merely by changing its government. That is why the US cannot allow Eastern Ukraine to break free or the entire US policy of covert overthrow ceases to work. This is why the US, which only two months ago declared the overthrow of Yanukovich an expression of Democracy, is now denouncing the independence referendums as illegitimate, and their leaders terrorists.

The entire model of US covert control of the globe is threatened, which is why the US will not back down in Ukraine, even though Europe is privately very much opposed to escalation."
