"Russia 'forced' to launch military drills near border in response to Ukraine op

Russia has begun extensive military exercises near the Ukrainian border following the escalation of violence in eastern Ukraine.

“The order to use force against civilians has already been
  given, and if this military machine is not stopped, the amount of
  casualties will only grow,” Russian Defense Minister Sergey
  Shoigu said during an official meeting in Moscow.


“War games by NATO in Poland and the Baltic states are also
  not helping the normalization of the situation. We are forced to
  react to the situation.”


  Shoigu said that the drills involve march and deployment
  maneuvers by forces in the southern and western military
  districts, and separate Air Force exercises.



  Shoigu said that 11,000 Ukrainian soldiers, 160 tanks, 230
  armored carriers and at least 150 artillery pieces are involved
  in the operation against anti-Kiev activists.


“National guard units and Right Sector extremists are
  fighting against the peaceful population, as well as a volunteer
  Donbass ‘anti-terrorist’ unit. Also security and internal forces
  transferred to Lugansk and Donetsk from other areas of the
  country are suppressing dissent,” he said.



  Shoigu added that Ukrainian sabotage units had been deployed near
  the Russian border.



  In contrast, he said that the pro-Russian self-defense units
  number about 2,000 and have about 100 guns between them, which
  have mostly been taken from local police stations.


It's not an evenly matched confrontation, Shoigu said.



  The coup-imposed Ukrainian acting president, Aleksandr Turchinov,
  has demanded that Russia pull back its troops back from the
  Ukrainian border, calling the ongoing Russian military
  exercises“blackmail.”


  In a brief address, Turchinov claimed that “terrorists have
  crossed the border… taking hostages and killing the patriots of
  Ukraine.” He also called for the Russian government “to
  stop interfering into the internal affairs of our country.”


  The heaviest fighting on Thursday took place in Slavyansk,
  with the Ukrainian Interior Ministry reporting the deaths of at
  least five terrorists.



  NATO has estimated that Russia has massed at least 40,000 troops
  near its border with Ukraine. Moscow has not denied that it has
  moved troops to the region, but said that its internal troop
  movements are its own prerogative.



  NATO began military exercises in Poland on Wednesday, with more
  scheduled to take place in the Baltic states next week. So far,
  150 US paratroopers have arrived in the country from their
  stationary base in Italy, with 450 more set to join them.



  Poland’s foreign minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, has also asked NATO
  to deploy 10,000 troops in his country.



  On Wednesday, the frigate USS Taylor became the latest US ship to
  enter the Black Sea on a rotating deployment. NATO has dispatched
  a separate rapid reaction force to the Baltic."
