"MOSCOW, May 30 (RIA Novosti) – The current political crisis in the former Georgian republic of Abkhazia is the result of social and economic problems and a fight to control the huge financial support from Russia, Abkhaz Prime Minister Leonid Lakerbaia said Friday.

The war waged by Georgia in 1992-1993 and the ensuing economic blockade has caused Abkhazia up to $15 billion in economic damage, the prime minister said, blaming the republic’s authorities for a poor handing of the economy.

“Of course, the former parliament and the current parliament, as well as presidents are to blame for this,” the prime minister told Izvestia in an interview also criticizing the poor medical care and unemployment in the region.

Abkhazia broke away from Georgia following an ethnically tinged war in 1992-1993, just after the collapse of the Soviet Union. More than a decade later, in 2008, Russia formally recognized the province as an independent state after a brief war with Tbilisi over another disputed Georgian region, South Ossetia. Many Abkhaz citizens hold Russian passports.

“Besides, serious cash injections from Russia have come, helping the social and economic sector of the republic, which many people want to take under their control. For Abkhazia this is a very serious sum, estimated at around 25 billion rubles ($700 million), Lakerbaia said.

In 2009-2013 Moscow offered cash injections to Abkhazia of around 11 billion rubles ($300 million).  For 2014-2015, Russia plans to provide Abkhazia with another 3 billion ruble ($85 million) package.

“This is a whole range of serious problems, but purely political fight cannot be ruled out here,” he said.

Speaking on a possible “foreign trace” in the conflict, Lakerbaia said “it would be better to blame someone for this” but he does not want to believe in this. He also cast doubt on the future of the opposition’s unification in the fight for power.

“This is a union of various parties and movements, whose interests at this stage do not coincide and are limited to ousting the current authorities,” the prime minister said.

A mass protest in Abkhazia’s capital, Sukhumi, has been continuing for several days. Protesters have seized government buildings, demanding President Aleksandr Ankvab step down. The Abkhaz parliament passed a vote of non-confidence in the prime minister on Thursday.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said earlier this week that Moscow is concerned by the political tensions in Abkhazia and believes the crisis should be resolved through a legal process."
