"US says it will increase aid to Syrian rebels

US Secretary of State John Kerry has said that the US and its allies will expand their support to the Syrian opposition. Kerry’s comments come after a US general said the Syrian rebels do not have the means to defeat President Assad.


  US Secretary of State John Kerry who was meeting British Foreign
  Minster William Hague in London said the US and its allies had
  agreed to increase their support to the Syrian opposition but did
  not specify if he meant arming them.



  Kerry said he was open to increasing aid to Syria but said that
  no decision has been made on changing the general US aid strategy
  to Syria.



  Syrian rebels have no force capable of holding government to
  administer aid and wage attacks against the current Assad regime,
  General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
  Staff, told the Atlantic Council, a think tank in the field of
  international affairs, in Washington, DC.


“They need the force they have now, which is trying to
  protect local villages and try to harass the regime and level the
  playing field. They need something that eventually will be able
  to hold ground,” he said.



  He added that the militants who are currently fighting the Assad
  regime don’t have any “counterterrorism capability” to
  completely eliminate the Al-Qaeda -linked groups in the
  crisis-torn country.


And we're not on a path currently to provide that, he
  added.



  According to Dempsey, if rebels oust Syrian president, the
  country would still be in crisis.


If Assad took his family and all of his cronies and departed
  Syria today, how does that country ... articulate itself?
  he asked.



  Dempsey, along with senior US military leaders including Chief of
  Staff of the US Army General Raymond T. Odierno, while trying to
  prepare military options in Syria for President Barack Obama,
  have publicly questioned the deployment of US troops in the
  conflict country after the insurgents oust Assad.


“I’ve heard it described as a succession of conflicts. You
  have the conflict that currently exists; then there’ll be the
  second conflict, which is kind of an internal conflict; and then
  there’ll be the third conflict against the terrorist
  organizations that are growing,” he said. “That’s
  probably right.”


  Meanwhile, the US still continues to provide help for the Syrian
  insurgents. On May 5, US authorities offered $27 million in
  additional help for the rebels. Also the Syrian Opposition
  Council’s offices in the US will soon become formal diplomatic
  missions.



  Obama administration repeatedly said conflict in Syria can only
  be solved if Assad steps down as president. In May a senior US
  administration official denounced the upcoming June elections,
  where Assad will also take part, as a parody of
  democracy.”


  According to Mark Seibel, chief of correspondents, McClatchy
  newspapers, US are only deepening the crisis situation in Syria.


“There can be no military solution and yet every step that we
  [US] are taking is a military step and so obviously what we were
  setting up is a longer term conflict, more conflict,” he
  told RT.



  Brian Becker, director of the Answer Coalition, told RT that
  politics of the Obama administration towards Syria only worsened
  the situation in the country.


“Armed opposition isn’t winning on the battlefield and …
  doesn’t have a popular base of support necessary to oust the
  Assad government,” he added.



  Syria was plunged into civil war in 2011 when peaceful uprisings
  against Assad descended into violence. More than 150,000 people
  have been killed and millions more have been displaced in the
  three years since fighting began. The international community
  made significant progress in 2013, when the US and Russia agreed
  that Syria should destroy its chemical stockpile following an
  attack in Damascus on August 21, 2013.



  The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons-UN task
  force confirmed in May that at least 92 percent of the weapons
  stockpile had been removed from the war-torn nation.



  The negotiations neared the end of a second week with no sign of
  progress.



  In January, Russia and the US organized the Geneva 2 peace talks
  between Assad’s government and the Syrian opposition. However,
  after two rounds of negotiations, no agreement was reached. No
  date has been yet set for the third round of negotiations, during
  which the Syrian government and the opposition-in-exile have
  agreed to discuss putting an end to violence, fighting terrorism,
  and the formation of a transitional government body.



  US Secretary of State John Kerry who was meeting British Foreign
  Minster William Hague in London said that he has seen data that
  suggests the Syrian army has used chlorine gas against its own
  people, although he stressed that the data hasn’t yet been
  verified.


“I have seen the raw data that suggests, that there may have
  been, as France suggested, a number of instances in which
  chlorine has been used in the conduct of war,” said Kerry.



  He also said that the US and its allies had agreed to increase
  their support to the Syrian opposition but did not specify if he
  meant arming them.



  Kerry said he was open to increasing aid to Syria but said that
  no decision has been made on changing the general US aid strategy
  to Syria."
