"UK slams Brussels seeking taxpayer cash for Kiev & jobless

Britain has slammed Brussels for demanding an extra ?500 million ($835.30 million) as the EU seeks to collect another 4.7 billion euro from member states to help crisis-hit Ukraine and to cover youth unemployment projects.


  While the UK “agreed that extra support be given to Ukraine
  and youth employment initiatives”, London “firmly
  believes” the European Commission should “reallocate
  existing funds within the agreed budget” instead of asking
  for more money.


At a time when countries across Europe continue to take
  difficult decisions to deal with deficits, the European
  Commission should not be asking Europe's taxpayers for yet more
  money, a spokeswoman for Britain's Treasury, said in a
  statement.


Member states agreed to frontload youth employment and
  science from 2015 to 2014, which means more resources are
  needed, the European Commission (EC) said on Wednesday.



  The EC also said it needed more money to help Ukraine and under
  the so-called contingency margin, the EU Commission
  can ask for extra funding to be spent for unforeseen
  circumstances.



  In the case of Britain, one of the largest contributors to the
  union, its share of the extra 4.7 billion euro needed would equal
  about ?500 million (600 million euro). Up to 75 million euro
  would go to help Ukraine.



  Britain's EU bill has more than tripled over the last decade,
  bringing the cost from ?2.9 billion in 2002 to ?9.5 billion in
  2012.



  Prime Minister David Cameron has vowed to tackle the problem as
  part of his plan to reconsider Britain-EU relations if
  re-elected, staging an in-out EU referendum before 2017.



  The EU’s demand has angered other member states as it comes
  shortly after last week’s European elections, in which millions
  in Britain, France, Denmark and Greece voted for populist and
  far-Left and Right parties, opposing closer ties with the EU or
  the bloc concept itself.


What a smart way to react to the concerns of Europe's
  voters, let's ask them for more money, a European diplomat
  told the Telegraph. The commission must live on another
  planet if they think that Europe can reconnect with people by
  raiding their wallets.


  Last year, the EU approved a seven-year budget plan that foresees
  a maximum spend of 908 billion euro between 2014 and 2020."
