"‘Russia not obliged to finance Ukraine-EU integration’

Since the moment Ukraine chose to become an independent state, it has had to accept that it can’t develop as a country at the cost of Russian taxpayers, Anna Van Densky, political commentator from the EU Reporter Magazine, told RT.


  Speaking about Russian gas, Van Densky said that Europe needs it
  badly for its development, while this commodity is taken hostage
  because of the political contradictions and ambitions over
  Ukrainian crisis.


RT: Has the gas supply to Europe ever been
  as threatened as it is now?

Anna Van Densky: It has always been a problem
  like that because after the collapse of the Soviet Union it was
  very difficult for the Ukrainian leadership to come to the terms
  that independence has its own price and if Ukraine is an
  independent state. They have to pay for gas as for any other
  commodity. Now of course it’s not the first so-called gas war
  because, unfortunately, gas transit was used on many occasions as
  an instrument of political pressure.



  That what we see now, because now the supplies to Europe are also
  threatened, that’s why the South Stream corridor is so crucial to
  stabilize gas supplies to Europeans, because we had the situation
  with crisis in 2006, 2009. It’s a system that should be really
  reconstructed, rebuilt in another way, and that’s why it’s ideal
  for Ukrainians themselves also to have different view on the
  energy so that they could also open a broad gate to green energy,
  for example, alternative energy, wind energy, etc. So this
  dependency on transit of Russian gas is also unhealthy for the
  Ukrainian state, for Ukrainians, because unfortunately there were
  many parasites around this easy money.


RT:Is South Stream pipeline really
  necessary? Surely it would be cheaper to work out a proper, long
  term deal with Ukraine? What do you think?

AD: There are a lot of details that are very
  ambivalent. First of all, in any supplies it’s much better to
  have multiple ways than one way, so it’s not only for political
  reasons. There can be other reasons like a catastrophe. The
  problem of supply isn’t dependent on Ukrainians as such. [The]
  more routes, [the] more secure it is. That’s why you talk all the
  time about diversifying the ways of gas. South Stream is an ideal
  way because it goes from Russia through Black Sea and it comes to
  Bulgaria, it comes directly to the EU. So it’s one of the ways,
  it’s not about cutting gas, Russian gas, from [going] through
  Ukraine, it’s just diminishing this route and giving other
  alternative routes and opportunity. It’s also very fashionable
  because it will open real opportunities for the other alternative
  to Ukrainians, like green energy, for example.


RT: Ukraine still wants heavily discounted
  gas prices. Is that a fair request?

AD: It’s not a fair request, no. It comes from
  the Soviet era, because once upon a time Soviet Union was
  basically one state. Asking for this price is absolutely
  ridiculous in the situation of being an independent state and
  buying a commodity. It’s a confusion and this confusion caused a
  lot of political problems afterwards as well, because the moment
  Ukraine or Ukrainian people chose to become an independent state,
  they had to accept that they can’t develop their country on cost
  of Russian taxpayers, because they are the citizens of other
  countries. That’s the way it goes.



  So it’s a lot of political confusion now as well, because if
  Europeans would like to help Ukrainians they have to sit together
  with Russians at the negotiation table and find out the way to
  help them to pay their bills, because it would be very na?ve to
  expect that Russian taxpayers are obliged to finance Ukrainian
  integration into the EU.



  So it’s not the way the things work. Unfortunately, all the
  revolutions are very anti-democratic because now the decisions
  are in the hands of a very small group of people, they were not
  elected democratically. I personally hope that after the real
  democratic elections there will be new leaders who will accept a
  fair and modern-style relationship with Russia.


RT:Isn't Russia's reputation as a reliable
  energy supplier is now a hostage to Kiev's political whims? Is
  there any solution?

AD: The South Stream is an ideal solution
  basically because it goes from Russia through the Black Sea and
  to Europe. It will help Europe because European needs gas badly,
  for example, Italy wants to develop southern Italy, and it would
  be a great opportunity for the economies of the south to get
  Russian gas. Let’s not forget that gas remains the most
  ecological among all types of energy. So it’s good for Europe,
  it’s good for [the] economy and it’s very sad that such a
  commodity is taken hostage because of these political
  contradictions and ambitions.



  It’s especially important to have South Stream corridor as a
  solution to diversify the ways of gas to Europe. The latest
  Ukrainian Maidan revolution is not the first one, there was also
  the Orange Revolution and the hope was flying high, but it didn’t
  deliver it and it ended in a second revolution, Maidan. When the
  situation will be stabilizing in Ukraine nobody really knows. We
  hope it will be stabilized soon. Anyway, I think that European
  and Russians, the taxpayers from both sides can’t be taken
  hostage of this political instability in Ukraine, so the South
  Stream and Nord Stream, maybe other pipeline like Yamal, will
  help to create real strategic partnership and well-being of the
  people.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
