"At least 6 killed, 45 injured as passenger, freight trains collide near Moscow

A freight train crashed into a passenger train in the Moscow Region. Dozens of people are injured and at least six confirmed dead. Injured passengers were being carried out of the carriages by hand.

“Today at 12:38pm (08:38 GMT) a freight and a commuter train
  collided on the Bekasovo-Nara railroad near the regional center
  of Naro-Fominsk,” reported the transport police press
  service.



  According to preliminary reports, six people were killed in the
  incident, one of them dying in hospital. All six victims were
  citizens of Moldova, said Russian Health Minister Veronika
  Skvortsova.



  Up to 45 passengers have been injured, 28 have been taken to
  hospitals, 15 of them are in a serious condition. Three of the
  injured are children.


“We now know about five dead,” confirmed the head of
  Naro-Fominsk Region Vadim Andronov. “It is possible that the
  number of dead and injured passengers will grow as one overturned
  passenger carriage has been blocked by a container from the
  freighter train, which now remains on top of it. Rescuers are
  entering the second damaged passenger carriage right now.

Video:
  /files/news/27/19/c0/00/trains1700_480p.mp4


  President Vladimir Putin said the government is doing everything
  possible to help those injured in the railway accident. He also
  vowed the families of those killed in the tragedy will get aid
  and the incident will be thoroughly investigated.



  Health Minister of the Moscow Region Nina Suslova assured that
  all injured people will receive “all the necessary medical
  treatment.” Three helicopters are being used to help
  evacuate the injured, she said.



  First Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets said that 18 injured
  passengers in are in a critical condition in local hospitals,
  most of them suffering head trauma.



  A preliminary evaluation maintains that the problem started when
  the frame of one of the freight carriages broke up, sending
  several of them off the rails. The passenger train passing on the
  next railway line was struck by them, completely tearing off a
  side wall of at least one passenger carriage.



  The train drivers tried to bring the train to an emergency halt.


“We used the emergency brake application. Then we could see
  nothing because of the dust, we had zero visibility,” one of
  the train drivers told Rossiya 24 TV channel.



  Russia’s Investigative Committee has indicated the cause of the
  crash as the breaking away of a cargo train container.


“The container got disconnected and scraped the oncoming
  Kishinev passenger train, damaging three cars,” Vladimir
  Markin, the spokesman for the Investigative Committee said in a
  statement.



  The Committee also stated that there were track works close to
  the area where the crash happened.



  The Moscow Region Transport Department was also investigating
  earlier if the crash was caused by a broken rail.



  Semyon, an eyewitness to the crash site, told RT that the scene
  was full of ambulances coming and going following the crash,
  taking the injured to hospitals.



  In all, 18 ambulances were evacuating injured from the crash
  site.



  The freighter train has already been dragged away. Unharmed
  passengers from the passenger train were asked to return to their
  reserved seats so that they do not interfere with the rescue
  operation.



  The passenger train was heading from Moscow to Chisinau, the
  capital of Moldova.



  The Interior Ministry’s press service reported of 394 tickets
  sold on the ill-fated Moscow-Chisinau train.



  The freight train was carrying cargo from Renault's production
  facility in Romania. It belongs to a Ukrainian logistics company.



  There was no head-on collision, yet 16 carriages of the freighter
  and three passenger carriages left the rails.



  Russian Railways has deployed two maintenance parties, consisting
  of 45 repair personnel and 16 units of equipment, to put the
  carriages back on the rails and repair the railroad
  infrastructure.



  Train movement on the Nara Bekasovo-1 stretch of the line where
  the crash happened has been fully restored, Russian Railways said
  in a statement.



  In addition, local authorities have organized a bus service
  between stations to bypass the crash site. There are 70 buses
  operating on the route between Aprelevka and Nara.



  Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov visited the crash
  site.



  The passengers injured in train crash could receive up to 2
  million rubles (about $57,000) compensation, says Andrey Yuryev
  the head of National Association of Liability Insurers.



  The Moldovan Ministry of Transport maintains it has unconfirmed
  reports of nine dead in the crash."
