"Indifference & vast expenditure at heart of EU apathy amid parliament vote

The remaining 20 of the EU’s 28 member countries go to the polls on Sunday to vote in the European elections. However, after years of economic crisis and rising unemployment, people have come to question the need for closer integration.


  Germany, France, Poland and Spain are among the major European
  nations voting, while they represent a large portion of the 388
  million Europeans eligible to cast ballots and elect the 751
  deputies to sit in the European Parliament for the next five
  years.



  Before the elections, opinion polls showed that around 25 percent
  of the seats would go to anti-EU and protest parties.



  Turn-out rates at the elections, a barometer of how engaged the
  public feels with Europe, are expected to drop once again to just
  above 40 percent, from 43 percent in 2009. That would continue
  the trend of declining participation at every European election
  since the first direct poll was held in 1979.



  The turnout rates are boosted by compulsory voting in Luxembourg
  and Belgium. If an eligible voter does not attend a polling
  station, he or she could be fined or subject to community
  service.



  The salaries of MEPs have also disillusioned parts of the
  electorate. Since 2009, MEPs receive a monthly salary of 7,957
  euro (US$10,847). They also receive expenses of 4,299 euro a
  month ($5,860), which they can use to claim travel to Brussels
  and Strasbourg from their constituencies, while there is a
  separate travel allowance of 4,243 euro ($5,784), which MEPs can
  use to pay for trips on official business to other destinations.
  They can also claim for up to 24 return journeys to their home
  countries.


“Being an MP is a truly wonderful job,” David Craig, who
  wrote the book ‘The Great European Rip-off’, told RT’s Peter
  Oliver. “I calculated with all the expenses that they get
  paid for example MEP’s will save up from a million to a 1.5
  million euros, while living a lifestyle where they can drink
  champagne every single night and eat the best food and travel
  first class.”

MEPs
  are also able to claim 304 euro as a daily allowance, just for
  doing their job and attending parliament. It is intended to cover
  hotel bills and meals. However it has led to abuses of the
  system, according to Craig.


“They have a system that's nicknamed the ‘So So’ system. In
  English it’s known as, ‘Sign on, Sod off’ - all you have to do is
  sign in for five minutes, then you get your 300 euros for the day
  and you can do whatever you want.”


  However, the largest cost of the European parliament, whose
  yearly budget weighs in at about 1.7 billion euro ($2.31
  billion). In 2009, the cost of each MEP was more than 1 million
  euro per year, while the parliament employs 700 full-time
  translators and 430 staff translators to deal with the 23
  officials languages of the MEPs. The cost of this equates to
  around a third of the parliament’s total expenditure. However,
  the cost of this is covered by the population of the EU, which is
  around 500 million, and is actually cheaper to the taxpayer than
  for their national parliaments."
