"Torture facilities: ‘Thousands of US prisoners held in solitary confinements for years at a time’

Some 80 thousand people in the US are held in solitary confinement for years at a time, which is nothing short of torture. The US prison system needs to come under public scrutiny, Alexis Agathocleous from the Center for Constitutional Rights told RT.

RT:California has the largest prison
  population in the US. Can you please describe the inhumane
  conditions of some of these prisoners?

Alexis Agathocleous: We at the Center for
  Constitutional Rights are engaged in a federal civil rights law
  right now, challenging California’s use of solitary confinement.
  Solitary confinement in California outpaces pretty much every
  other state in the country. They are warehousing thousands of
  prisoners in solitary confinements, and indeed there is just no
  other state in the country which consistently retains so many
  prisoners in solitary confinement for such incredibly lengthy
  periods of time. Our clients are currently housed at what is
  called “a special housing unit in Pelican Bay.” Pelican
  Bay is a California prison, very far north in California. And the
  plaintiffs in our lawsuit have been isolated in solitary
  confinement at this unit between 12 and 23 years. And indeed many
  of them have been sent to Pelican Bay from other solitary
  confinement units. Some of them have been in solitary confinement
  up to 25 years, some of them – more than 30 years. What we do
  know is that there are approximately 500 prisoners at the Pelican
  Bay facility alone, who have spent at least a decade in solitary
  confinement. These are really shocking numbers of people who have
  been warehoused in these conditions, and these are unparalleled
  periods of time, which we maintain constitutes torture.


RT:Can you describe the 'SHU' (Security
  housing units) in Pelican Bay?

AA: Certainly. The prisoners at Pelican Bay
  languish in cramped concrete windowless cells for 22.5-24 hours a
  day completely alone. No natural light, no face-to-face
  interaction with any other human beings. Their food is delivered
  to them through a metal slot in their door by a correctional
  officer, that food is frequently cold, rotten, lacking in
  nutritional value. As I said, they have no face-to-face
  interaction with other human beings, only through the door with
  correctional officers, and when they are delivered in chains to a
  barren solid concrete cell that is known as a dog run
  extensively for an hour a day to exercise on their own. There is
  no equipment apart from a bar and a single board. And they are
  taken there in chains. They are denied any telephone calls home,
  so they have no phone calls with their families. Social visits
  are strictly non-contact, which means that when a family member
  visits you are not allowed to hug hello, shake hands, anything
  like that. So it is an incredibly isolating experience.
  Fundamentally, there is no normal communication with even other
  prisoners, the only way to communicate with another prisoner is
  to yell loud enough to be heard through pipes or through the
  wall, but any communication with another prisoner can be taken as
  evidence of gang activity. If the other prisoner is a validated
  member of a gang, it can be used as a rationale to keep you in in
  solitary confinement even longer. In other words, these are
  incredibly harsh conditions that have been imposed for decades at
  a time.


RT:Many human rights activists have been
  voicing their concerns on the treatment of inmates. Has there
  been any progress?

AA: I think across the country there is a
  mounting consciousness about the ill effects of solitary
  confinement. There is a growing understanding of the grave
  psychological effect. There is a consensus within social science
  that prolonged solitary confinement causes a significant danger
  of descending into irreversible mental illness and also results
  in a constellation of symptoms such as anxiety, insomnia,
  paranoid thoughts, hallucinations. So there is a broad
  understanding of the impact of this. As a result, we are seeing
  some positive developments in the country. The first
  Congressional hearing on solitary confinements took place last
  summer and signaled that the federal government is fundamentally
  rethinking its use of solitary confinement in federal facilities.
  Meanwhile, various states around the country have made voluntary
  changes to reduce the number of people that are held solitary
  confinement with very positive results. So states like Maryland
  and Mississippi have reduced the number of people in solitary
  confinement without threatening institutional security. In
  California we are litigating this lawsuit on behalf of the
  prisoners at Pelican Bay, and we intend to show in this lawsuit
  that placing prisoners in solitary confinement for such long
  periods of time places prisoners at an unacceptable risk of
  psychological harm, and really make that clear through
  constitutional challenges to this practice.


RT:A great number of prisoners are on a
  23-hour lockdown. Prison officials claim that this should not be
  considered as solitary confinement. Can you comment on this
  statement?

AA: I think the argument that letting somebody
  out of a cell for an hour a day to go exercise by themselves in
  another cell is extreme semantics. If you look at any definition
  of solitary confinement under international law, under
  international human rights standards, or any sort of working use
  of solitary confinement within case law, it is acknowledged that
  there is no such thing as pure solitary confinement where a
  person is locked in 4 walls and never lays eyes on another human
  being. That simply does not happen. But the working definition of
  solitary confinement is when you are confined in your cell for
  more than 22 hours a day without meaningful human contact. And
  that is most certainly what we are seeing in California.


RT:Recently there was a prisoner hunger
  strike. Can you describe why the prisoners are protesting and if
  the strike achieved any changes?

AA: Absolutely. The Pelican Bay hunger strike -
  there have been several of them in fact, and the prisoners of
  Pelican Bay resorted to this measure in order to draw much needed
  attention to their plight. And so they were literally willing to
  risk death in order to draw attention to what has been happening
  to them for decades now, and to raise consciousness and awareness
  of this human rights issue. After the first hunger strikes in
  2011 they were promised various changes by the California
  corrections department and unfortunately those changes did not
  materialize. And so there was another hunger strike last summer.
  One very positive development that has come out of that is this
  issue has been taken up by the California legislature, and there
  are two bills pending before the California assembly about
  changes in the processes by which prisoners are designated to
  solitary confinement; and that would hopefully modify some of the
  conditions there. So there is certainly attention to this matter,
  both in the legislature and in the courts. But also I think among
  the public; I think in the last few years this issue has been
  covered a lot more in the media and people are starting to
  grapple with the implications of America's vast overuse of
  solitary confinement. In the US we have approximately 80 thousand
  people in solitary confinement on any given day, and now that we
  have an understanding of the psychological and medical impact of
  that I think we are going to see a real change in our practices
  around the use of solitary confinement.


RT:Critics say that solitary confinement is
  often used on minor prison offenders. Why has this been the
  case?

AA: I think something that is very important to
  understand is that solitary confinement is not something that is
  imposed by a judge or a court based on what you are convicted of.
  You are placed in solitary confinement as an administrative
  process that is governed by prison officials. Prison officials
  generally have very wide discretion to make administrative
  decisions about where they are going to house prisoners. So in
  California you do not have to have engaged in any dangerous gang
  activity in order to be sent to solitary confinement; you do not
  have to have engaged in a violent act, or any overt act on behalf
  of the gang. Instead, in California you can be sent to solitary
  confinement for what the correctional officials see as
  association with the gang. Now, association with the gang is
  interpreted incredibly widely. So among our clients, people whose
  names have appeared on a list of alleged gang members, just the
  fact that their names were on the list was used for keeping them
  in solitary confinement. In other instances, artwork that has
  been in the possession of our clients has been interpreted as
  evidence of association with the gang. Also possessing black
  power literature has been interpreted by California corrections
  officials as evidence of association with the gang. In other
  words, there is this misperception that solitary confinement is
  reserved for the worst of the worst, and is only imposed once you
  have acted dangerously or violently; and that is simply not the
  case. These administrative decisions are made in a much wider
  variety of cases than you might expect.


RT:Many prisons in the United States have
  been privatized. Do you think that the treatment of prisoners
  would improve if all prisons were state operated?

AA: Obviously a whole host of problematic issues
  arise from the privatization of prisons. I think it is very
  important that our prison system be subjected to as much public
  scrutiny as possible, and obviously privatizing the prison system
  only shields that kind of scrutiny. But, unfortunately, the fact
  is that there is use of solitary confinement across the prison
  systems. It is used in jails, in state prisons, in federal
  prisons; it is ubiquitous in our system. I think only now people
  are starting to question the wisdom of using it so widely, and I
  think there is a growing understanding of the ills associated
  with solitary confinement and the deep human rights concerns
  associated with the practice. And we are seeing a questioning of
  its use across the board, whether it be in publicly run
  facilities or privatized facilities.


The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT."
